docs/docs/install-homebrew.mdx, before:

A [Homebrew][brew] formula is available for easy installation.

```bash
brew tap jandedobbeleer/oh-my-posh
brew install oh-my-posh
```

This installs two things:

- `oh-my-posh` - Executable, added to `/usr/local/bin`
- `themes` - The latest Oh My Posh [themes][themes]

If you want to use a standard theme, you can find them in `$(brew --prefix oh-my-posh)/themes`, referencing them as such
will always keep them compatible when updating Oh My Posh.

## Update

```bash
brew update && brew upgrade oh-my-posh
```

:::tip
In case you see [strange behaviour][strange] in your shell, reload it after upgrading Oh My Posh.
For example in zsh:

```bash
brew update && brew upgrade && exec zsh
```
:::

## Replace your existing prompt

The guides below assume you copied the theme called `jandedobbeleer.omp.json` to your user's `$HOME` folder.
When using brew, you can find this one at `$(brew --prefix oh-my-posh)/themes/jandedobbeleer.omp.json`.

[brew]: https://brew.sh
[themes]: https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/themes
[strange]: https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/issues/1287

Commit message:

Next steps link for path
brew command won't work without updating path and profile script -- just a suggestion to add to the install doc for folks not famiiar with Homebrew

docs/docs/install-homebrew.mdx, after:

A [Homebrew][brew] formula is available for easy installation. When installing Homebrew for Linux, be sure to follow *[Next steps][nextsteps]* instructions to add Homebrew to your PATH and to your bash shell profile script. 

```bash
brew tap jandedobbeleer/oh-my-posh
brew install oh-my-posh
```

This installs two things:

- `oh-my-posh` - Executable, added to `/usr/local/bin`
- `themes` - The latest Oh My Posh [themes][themes]

If you want to use a standard theme, you can find them in `$(brew --prefix oh-my-posh)/themes`, referencing them as such
will always keep them compatible when updating Oh My Posh.

## Update

```bash
brew update && brew upgrade oh-my-posh
```

:::tip
In case you see [strange behaviour][strange] in your shell, reload it after upgrading Oh My Posh.
For example in zsh:

```bash
brew update && brew upgrade && exec zsh
```
:::

## Replace your existing prompt

The guides below assume you copied the theme called `jandedobbeleer.omp.json` to your user's `$HOME` folder.
When using brew, you can find this one at `$(brew --prefix oh-my-posh)/themes/jandedobbeleer.omp.json`.

[brew]: brew.sh
[nextsteps]: https://docs.brew.sh/Homebrew-on-Linux#install
[themes]: https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/themes
[strange]: https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/issues/1287
