docs/docs/install-customize-cmd.mdx, before:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

<Tabs
  defaultValue="powershell"
  groupId="shell"
  values={[
    { label: 'powershell', value: 'powershell', },
    { label: 'zsh', value: 'zsh', },
    { label: 'bash', value: 'bash', },
    { label: 'fish', value: 'fish', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="powershell">

```powershell
Export-PoshTheme -FilePath "~/.mytheme.omp.json" -Format json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust your `$PROFILE` to use your newly created theme.

```powershell
oh-my-posh --init --shell pwsh --config "~/.mytheme.omp.json" | Invoke-Expression
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="zsh">

```bash
export_poshconfig "~/.mytheme.omp.json" json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust `~/.zshrc` to use your newly created theme.

```bash
eval "$(oh-my-posh --init --shell zsh --config '~/.mytheme.omp.json')"
```

When adjusted, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

```bash
. ~/.zshrc
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="bash">

```bash
export_poshconfig "~/.mytheme.omp.json" json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust `~/.bashrc` to use your newly created theme.

```bash
eval "$(oh-my-posh --init --shell bash --config '~/.mytheme.omp.json')"
```

When adjusted, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

```bash
. ~/.bashrc
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fish">

```bash
export_poshconfig "~/.mytheme.omp.json" json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust `config.fish` to use your newly created theme.

```bash
oh-my-posh --init --shell fish --config '~/.mytheme.omp.json' | source
```

Once adjusted, reload your config for the changes to take effect.

```bash
. ~/.config/fish/config.fish
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

docs: add bash profile context
resolves #939

docs/docs/install-customize-cmd.mdx, after:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

<Tabs
  defaultValue="powershell"
  groupId="shell"
  values={[
    { label: 'powershell', value: 'powershell', },
    { label: 'zsh', value: 'zsh', },
    { label: 'bash', value: 'bash', },
    { label: 'fish', value: 'fish', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="powershell">

```powershell
Export-PoshTheme -FilePath "~/.mytheme.omp.json" -Format json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust your `$PROFILE` to use your newly created theme.

```powershell
oh-my-posh --init --shell pwsh --config "~/.mytheme.omp.json" | Invoke-Expression
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="zsh">

```bash
export_poshconfig "~/.mytheme.omp.json" json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust `~/.zshrc` to use your newly created theme.

```bash
eval "$(oh-my-posh --init --shell zsh --config '~/.mytheme.omp.json')"
```

When adjusted, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

```bash
. ~/.zshrc
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="bash">

```bash
export_poshconfig "~/.mytheme.omp.json" json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust `~/.bashrc` (could be `~/.profile` or `~/.bash_profile` depending on your environment) to use your newly created theme.

```bash
eval "$(oh-my-posh --init --shell bash --config '~/.mytheme.omp.json')"
```

When adjusted, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

```bash
. ~/.bashrc
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fish">

```bash
export_poshconfig "~/.mytheme.omp.json" json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust `config.fish` to use your newly created theme.

```bash
oh-my-posh --init --shell fish --config '~/.mytheme.omp.json' | source
```

Once adjusted, reload your config for the changes to take effect.

```bash
. ~/.config/fish/config.fish
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
