docs/docs/install-linux.mdx, before:

---
id: linux
title: Linux
sidebar_label: 🐧 Linux
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Shells from "./install-shells.mdx";
import Customize from "./install-customize.md";
import CustomizeCmd from "./install-customize-cmd.mdx";
import InstallHomebrew from "./install-homebrew.mdx";

## Setup your terminal

Oh My Posh uses ANSI color codes under the hood, these should work in every terminal,
but you may have to set the environment variable `$TERM` to `xterm-256color` for it to work.

## Installation

<Tabs
  defaultValue="homebrew"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'homebrew', value: 'homebrew', },
    { label: 'manual', value: 'manual', }
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="homebrew">

<InstallHomebrew />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="manual">

Oh My Posh can also be installed manually by downloading the release.
Depending on your distro, this may or may not work (please refer to the homebrew installation
in case it doesn't work).

**Download Oh My Posh**

```bash
sudo wget https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/releases/latest/download/posh-linux-amd64 -O /usr/local/bin/oh-my-posh
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/oh-my-posh
```

**Download the [themes][themes]**

```bash
mkdir ~/.poshthemes
wget https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/releases/latest/download/themes.zip -O ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip
unzip ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip -d ~/.poshthemes
chmod u+rw ~/.poshthemes/*.json
rm ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip
```

## Replace your existing prompt

The guides below assume you copied the theme called `jandedobbeleer.omp.json` to your user's `$HOME` folder.
When you've downloaded the themes, you can find this one at `~/.poshthemes/jandedobbeleer.omp.json`.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Shells />

## Customize

<Customize />

<CustomizeCmd />

🎉🎉🎉

[scoop]: https://scoop.sh/
[wt]: https://github.com/microsoft/terminal
[iterm2]: https://www.iterm2.com/
[powershell]: https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/oh-my-posh
[configuration]: /docs/config-overview
[themes]: https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/themes

Commit message:

docs: highlight the use of Nerd Fonts
relates to #1464

docs/docs/install-linux.mdx, after:

---
id: linux
title: Linux
sidebar_label: 🐧 Linux
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Shells from "./install-shells.mdx";
import Customize from "./install-customize.md";
import CustomizeCmd from "./install-customize-cmd.mdx";
import InstallHomebrew from "./install-homebrew.mdx";

## Setup your terminal

Oh My Posh uses ANSI color codes under the hood, these should work in every terminal,
but you may have to set the environment variable `$TERM` to `xterm-256color` for it to work.

:::info
To display all icons, we recommend the use of a [Nerd Font][fonts].
:::

## Installation

<Tabs
  defaultValue="homebrew"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'homebrew', value: 'homebrew', },
    { label: 'manual', value: 'manual', }
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="homebrew">

<InstallHomebrew />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="manual">

Oh My Posh can also be installed manually by downloading the release.
Depending on your distro, this may or may not work (please refer to the homebrew installation
in case it doesn't work).

**Download Oh My Posh**

```bash
sudo wget https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/releases/latest/download/posh-linux-amd64 -O /usr/local/bin/oh-my-posh
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/oh-my-posh
```

**Download the [themes][themes]**

```bash
mkdir ~/.poshthemes
wget https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/releases/latest/download/themes.zip -O ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip
unzip ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip -d ~/.poshthemes
chmod u+rw ~/.poshthemes/*.json
rm ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip
```

## Replace your existing prompt

The guides below assume you copied the theme called `jandedobbeleer.omp.json` to your user's `$HOME` folder.
When you've downloaded the themes, you can find this one at `~/.poshthemes/jandedobbeleer.omp.json`.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Shells />

## Customize

<Customize />

<CustomizeCmd />

🎉🎉🎉

[fonts]: /docs/config-fonts
[scoop]: https://scoop.sh/
[wt]: https://github.com/microsoft/terminal
[iterm2]: https://www.iterm2.com/
[powershell]: https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/oh-my-posh
[configuration]: /docs/config-overview
[themes]: /docs/themes
