docs/docs/install-customize.mdx, before:

---
id: customize
title: Customize
sidebar_label: 💅🏼 Customize
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

:::tip
When using oh-my-posh in Windows and the WSL, know that you can share your theme with the WSL by pointing to a theme in your
Windows user's home folder.

Inside the WSL, you can find your Windows user's home folder here: `/mnt/c/Users/<WINDOWSUSERNAME>`.
:::

### Change the theme

We downloaded all the themes and set `jandedobbeleer.omp.json` as the one to use.
However, there are [a lot more][themes] to be discovered and maybe there are some you like better.

### Override the theme settings

Maybe there's a theme you like, but you don't fancy the colors. Or, maybe there's a segment you
want to tweak/add, or replace some of the icons with a different one. Whatever the case, read through all
available options first, by starting with the [configuration guide][configuration].

You can output the current theme to the format you like (`json`, `yaml` or `toml`) which can be used to tweak
and store as your custom theme.

<Tabs
  defaultValue="powershell"
  groupId="shell"
  values={[
    { label: 'powershell', value: 'powershell', },
    { label: 'zsh', value: 'zsh', },
    { label: 'bash', value: 'bash', },
    { label: 'fish', value: 'fish', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="powershell">

```powershell
Export-PoshTheme -FilePath "~/.mytheme.omp.json" -Format json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust your `$PROFILE` to use your newly created theme.

```powershell
oh-my-posh prompt init pwsh --config "~/.mytheme.omp.json" | Invoke-Expression
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="zsh">

```bash
export_poshconfig "~/.mytheme.omp.json" json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust `~/.zshrc` to use your newly created theme.

```bash
eval "$(oh-my-posh prompt init zsh --config '~/.mytheme.omp.json')"
```

When adjusted, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

```bash
exec zsh
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="bash">

```bash
export_poshconfig "~/.mytheme.omp.json" json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust `~/.bashrc` (could be `~/.profile` or `~/.bash_profile` depending on your environment) to use your newly created theme.

```bash
eval "$(oh-my-posh prompt init bash --config '~/.mytheme.omp.json')"
```

When adjusted, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

```bash
exec bash
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fish">

```bash
export_poshconfig "~/.mytheme.omp.json" json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust `config.fish` to use your newly created theme.

```bash
oh-my-posh prompt init fish --config '~/.mytheme.omp.json' | source
```

Once adjusted, reload your config for the changes to take effect.

```bash
. ~/.config/fish/config.fish
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


[themes]: themes.md
[configuration]: config-overview.md

Commit message:

docs: direct references to --config remote configs

docs/docs/install-customize.mdx, after:

---
id: customize
title: Customize
sidebar_label: 💅🏼 Customize
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

:::tip
When using oh-my-posh in Windows and the WSL, know that you can share your theme with the WSL by pointing to a theme in your
Windows user's home folder.

Inside the WSL, you can find your Windows user's home folder here: `/mnt/c/Users/<WINDOWSUSERNAME>`.
:::

### Change the theme

We downloaded all the themes and set `jandedobbeleer.omp.json` as the one to use.
However, there are [a lot more][themes] to be discovered and maybe there are some you like better.

### Override the theme settings

Maybe there's a theme you like, but you don't fancy the colors. Or, maybe there's a segment you
want to tweak/add, or replace some of the icons with a different one. Whatever the case, read through all
available options first, by starting with the [configuration guide][configuration].

You can output the current theme to the format you like (`json`, `yaml` or `toml`) which can be used to tweak
and store as your custom theme.

<Tabs
  defaultValue="powershell"
  groupId="shell"
  values={[
    { label: 'powershell', value: 'powershell', },
    { label: 'zsh', value: 'zsh', },
    { label: 'bash', value: 'bash', },
    { label: 'fish', value: 'fish', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="powershell">

```powershell
Export-PoshTheme -FilePath "~/.mytheme.omp.json" -Format json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust your `$PROFILE` to use your newly created theme.

```powershell
oh-my-posh prompt init pwsh --config "~/.mytheme.omp.json" | Invoke-Expression
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="zsh">

```bash
export_poshconfig "~/.mytheme.omp.json" json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust `~/.zshrc` to use your newly created theme.

```bash
eval "$(oh-my-posh prompt init zsh --config '~/.mytheme.omp.json')"
```

When adjusted, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

```bash
exec zsh
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="bash">

```bash
export_poshconfig "~/.mytheme.omp.json" json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust `~/.bashrc` (could be `~/.profile` or `~/.bash_profile` depending on your environment) to use your newly created theme.

```bash
eval "$(oh-my-posh prompt init bash --config '~/.mytheme.omp.json')"
```

When adjusted, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

```bash
exec bash
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fish">

```bash
export_poshconfig "~/.mytheme.omp.json" json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust `config.fish` to use your newly created theme.

```bash
oh-my-posh prompt init fish --config '~/.mytheme.omp.json' | source
```

Once adjusted, reload your config for the changes to take effect.

```bash
. ~/.config/fish/config.fish
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::tip
The `--config` flag can accept either a local filepath or remotely hosted JSON.

For example, the following is a valid `--config` flag:  
`--config 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/main/themes/jandedobbeleer.omp.json'`
:::


[themes]: themes.md
[configuration]: config-overview.md
