docs/docs/install-windows.mdx, before:

---
id: windows
title: Windows
sidebar_label: ⊞ Windows
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Shells from "./install-shells.mdx";
import Customize from "./install-customize.md";
import CustomizeCmd from "./install-customize-cmd.mdx";

### Setup your terminal

While Oh My Posh works on the standard terminal, we advise using the [Windows Terminal][wt].

### Installation

<Tabs
  defaultValue="winget"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'winget', value: 'winget', },
    { label: 'scoop', value: 'scoop', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="winget">

```powershell
winget install JanDeDobbeleer.OhMyPosh
```

This installs a couple of things:

- `oh-my-posh.exe` - Windows executable, added to your `$PATH`
- `oh-my-posh-wsl` - Linux executable, added to your `$PATH` for use in the WSL
- `themes` - The latest Oh My Posh themes

If you want to use a standard theme, you can find them in `~\AppData\Local\Programs\oh-my-posh\themes\`,
referencing them as such
will always keep them compatible with the binary when updating Oh My Posh.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="scoop">

```powershell
scoop install https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/releases/latest/download/oh-my-posh.json
```

This installs a couple of things:

- `oh-my-posh.exe` - Windows executable, added to your `$PATH`
- `oh-my-posh-wsl` - Linux executable, added to your `$PATH` for use in the WSL
- `themes` - The latest Oh My Posh themes

If you want to use a standard theme, you can find them in `~\scoop\apps\oh-my-posh\current\themes\`,
referencing them as such
will always keep them compatible with the binary when updating Oh My Posh.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

For the `$PATH` to reload, a reboot is advised.

### Usage

#### Preview the themes

<Tabs
  defaultValue="winget"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'winget', value: 'winget', },
    { label: 'scoop', value: 'scoop', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="winget">

```powershell
Get-ChildItem -Path "~\AppData\Local\Programs\oh-my-posh\themes\*" -Include '*.omp.json' | Sort-Object Name | ForEach-Object -Process {
    $esc = [char]27
    Write-Host ""
    Write-Host "$esc[1m$($_.BaseName)$esc[0m"
    Write-Host ""
    oh-my-posh --config $($_.FullName) --pwd $PWD
    Write-Host ""
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="scoop">

```powershell
Get-ChildItem -Path "$(scoop prefix oh-my-posh)\themes\*" -Include '*.omp.json' | Sort-Object Name | ForEach-Object -Process {
    $esc = [char]27
    Write-Host ""
    Write-Host "$esc[1m$($_.BaseName)$esc[0m"
    Write-Host ""
    oh-my-posh --config $($_.FullName) --pwd $PWD
    Write-Host ""
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### Update

<Tabs
  defaultValue="winget"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'winget', value: 'winget', },
    { label: 'scoop', value: 'scoop', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="winget">

```powershell
winget upgrade JanDeDobbeleer.OhMyPosh
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="scoop">

```powershell
scoop update oh-my-posh
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Replace your existing prompt

<Tabs
  defaultValue="winget"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'winget', value: 'winget', },
    { label: 'scoop', value: 'scoop', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="winget">

You can find the themes winget installs inside the `~\AppData\Local\Programs\oh-my-posh\themes\` folder.
To use `jandedobbeleer.omp.json` for example, you can refer to it using `~\AppData\Local\Programs\oh-my-posh\themes\jandedobbeleer.omp.json`
when setting the prompt using the `--config` flag.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="scoop">

You can find the themes scoop installs inside the `"$(scoop prefix oh-my-posh)\themes\"` folder.
To use `jandedobbeleer.omp.json` for example, you can refer to it using `"$(scoop prefix oh-my-posh)\themes\jandedobbeleer.omp.json"`
when setting the prompt using the `--config` flag.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

The guides below assume you copied the theme called `jandedobbeleer.omp.json` to your user's `$HOME` folder.
Based on the installation method used, you can find this theme at the following location:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="winget"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'winget', value: 'winget', },
    { label: 'scoop', value: 'scoop', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="winget">

`~\AppData\Local\Programs\oh-my-posh\themes\jandedobbeleer.omp.json`

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="scoop">

`"$(scoop prefix oh-my-posh)\themes\jandedobbeleer.omp.json"`

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Shells />

### Customize

<Customize />

<CustomizeCmd />

🎉🎉🎉

[scoop]: https://scoop.sh/
[wt]: https://github.com/microsoft/terminal
[powershell]: https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/oh-my-posh

Commit message:

docs: clarify WSL and Windows user home
closes #863

docs/docs/install-windows.mdx, after:

---
id: windows
title: Windows
sidebar_label: ⊞ Windows
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Shells from "./install-shells.mdx";
import Customize from "./install-customize.md";
import CustomizeCmd from "./install-customize-cmd.mdx";

### Setup your terminal

While Oh My Posh works on the standard terminal, we advise using the [Windows Terminal][wt].

### Installation

<Tabs
  defaultValue="winget"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'winget', value: 'winget', },
    { label: 'scoop', value: 'scoop', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="winget">

```powershell
winget install JanDeDobbeleer.OhMyPosh
```

This installs a couple of things:

- `oh-my-posh.exe` - Windows executable, added to your `$PATH`
- `oh-my-posh-wsl` - Linux executable, added to your `$PATH` for use in the WSL
- `themes` - The latest Oh My Posh themes

If you want to use a standard theme, you can find them in `~\AppData\Local\Programs\oh-my-posh\themes\`,
referencing them as such
will always keep them compatible with the binary when updating Oh My Posh.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="scoop">

```powershell
scoop install https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/releases/latest/download/oh-my-posh.json
```

This installs a couple of things:

- `oh-my-posh.exe` - Windows executable, added to your `$PATH`
- `oh-my-posh-wsl` - Linux executable, added to your `$PATH` for use in the WSL
- `themes` - The latest Oh My Posh themes

If you want to use a standard theme, you can find them in `~\scoop\apps\oh-my-posh\current\themes\`,
referencing them as such
will always keep them compatible with the binary when updating Oh My Posh.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

For the `$PATH` to reload, a reboot is advised.

### Usage

#### Preview the themes

<Tabs
  defaultValue="winget"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'winget', value: 'winget', },
    { label: 'scoop', value: 'scoop', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="winget">

```powershell
Get-ChildItem -Path "~\AppData\Local\Programs\oh-my-posh\themes\*" -Include '*.omp.json' | Sort-Object Name | ForEach-Object -Process {
    $esc = [char]27
    Write-Host ""
    Write-Host "$esc[1m$($_.BaseName)$esc[0m"
    Write-Host ""
    oh-my-posh --config $($_.FullName) --pwd $PWD
    Write-Host ""
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="scoop">

```powershell
Get-ChildItem -Path "$(scoop prefix oh-my-posh)\themes\*" -Include '*.omp.json' | Sort-Object Name | ForEach-Object -Process {
    $esc = [char]27
    Write-Host ""
    Write-Host "$esc[1m$($_.BaseName)$esc[0m"
    Write-Host ""
    oh-my-posh --config $($_.FullName) --pwd $PWD
    Write-Host ""
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### Update

<Tabs
  defaultValue="winget"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'winget', value: 'winget', },
    { label: 'scoop', value: 'scoop', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="winget">

```powershell
winget upgrade JanDeDobbeleer.OhMyPosh
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="scoop">

```powershell
scoop update oh-my-posh
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Replace your existing prompt

<Tabs
  defaultValue="winget"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'winget', value: 'winget', },
    { label: 'scoop', value: 'scoop', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="winget">

You can find the themes winget installs inside the `~\AppData\Local\Programs\oh-my-posh\themes\` folder.
To use `jandedobbeleer.omp.json` for example, you can refer to it using `~\AppData\Local\Programs\oh-my-posh\themes\jandedobbeleer.omp.json`
when setting the prompt using the `--config` flag.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="scoop">

You can find the themes scoop installs inside the `"$(scoop prefix oh-my-posh)\themes\"` folder.
To use `jandedobbeleer.omp.json` for example, you can refer to it using `"$(scoop prefix oh-my-posh)\themes\jandedobbeleer.omp.json"`
when setting the prompt using the `--config` flag.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

The guides below assume you copied the theme called `jandedobbeleer.omp.json` to your user's `$HOME` folder.
Based on the installation method used, you can find this theme at the following location:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="winget"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'winget', value: 'winget', },
    { label: 'scoop', value: 'scoop', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="winget">

`~\AppData\Local\Programs\oh-my-posh\themes\jandedobbeleer.omp.json`

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="scoop">

`"$(scoop prefix oh-my-posh)\themes\jandedobbeleer.omp.json"`

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Shells />

### Customize

<Customize />

:::info
When using oh-my-posh in Windows and the WSL, know that you can share your theme with the WSL by pointing to a theme in your
Windows user's home folder.

Inside the WSL, replace `~` with the following path: `/mnt/c/Users/<WINDOWSUSERNAME>`.
:::

<CustomizeCmd />

🎉🎉🎉

[scoop]: https://scoop.sh/
[wt]: https://github.com/microsoft/terminal
[powershell]: https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/oh-my-posh
