docs/docs/install-pwsh.mdx, before:

---
id: pwsh
title: PowerShell
sidebar_label: 🐚 PowerShell
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Customize from "./install-customize.md";

:::info
This guide is for usage inside PowerShell only. If you plan to use Oh my Posh inside other shells as well,
have a look at the platform specific install instructions.
:::

## Installation

```powershell
Install-Module oh-my-posh -Scope CurrentUser
```

:::caution
If you wish to install for **all users in a linux** environment, you will need to install from an **elevated PowerShell session**.
You will also need to import the module one time from the elevated session in order to set the executable permissions correctly.

```powershell
sudo pwsh
Install-Module oh-my-posh -Scope AllUsers
Import-Module oh-my-posh
```
:::

## List all themes

To display every available theme in the current directory, use the following
cmdlet.

```powershell
Get-PoshThemes
```

## Replace your existing prompt

Edit `$PROFILE` in your preferred PowerShell version and add the following line. Autocompletion is available so it will loop
through all available themes.

```powershell
Set-PoshPrompt -Theme jandedobbeleer
```

Once added, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

```powershell
. $PROFILE
```

<Customize />

```powershell
Export-PoshTheme -FilePath ~/.mytheme.omp.json -Format json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust your `$PROFILE` to use your newly created theme.

```powershell
Set-PoshPrompt -Theme ~/.mytheme.omp.json
```

## Update

```powershell
Update-Module oh-my-posh
```

🎉🎉🎉

[scoop]: https://scoop.sh/
[wt]: https://github.com/microsoft/terminal
[powershell]: https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/oh-my-posh
[configuration]: /docs/configure

Commit message:

docs: add pwsh module themes location info

docs/docs/install-pwsh.mdx, after:

---
id: pwsh
title: PowerShell
sidebar_label: 🐚 PowerShell
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Customize from "./install-customize.md";

:::info
This guide is for usage inside PowerShell only. If you plan to use Oh my Posh inside other shells as well,
have a look at the platform specific install instructions.
:::

## Installation

```powershell
Install-Module oh-my-posh -Scope CurrentUser
```

:::caution
If you wish to install for **all users in a linux** environment, you will need to install from an **elevated PowerShell session**.
You will also need to import the module one time from the elevated session in order to set the executable permissions correctly.

```powershell
sudo pwsh
Install-Module oh-my-posh -Scope AllUsers
Import-Module oh-my-posh
```
:::

## List all themes

To display every available theme in the current directory, use the following
cmdlet.

```powershell
Get-PoshThemes
```

The module installs all themes in the module folder. To find the actual files, you can use the following command:

```powershell
Get-ChildItem "$((Get-Module oh-my-posh).ModuleBase)/themes"
```

## Replace your existing prompt

Edit `$PROFILE` in your preferred PowerShell version and add the following line. Autocompletion is available so it will loop
through all available themes.

```powershell
Set-PoshPrompt -Theme jandedobbeleer
```

Once added, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

```powershell
. $PROFILE
```

<Customize />

```powershell
Export-PoshTheme -FilePath ~/.mytheme.omp.json -Format json
```

Once you're done editing, adjust your `$PROFILE` to use your newly created theme.

```powershell
Set-PoshPrompt -Theme ~/.mytheme.omp.json
```

## Update

```powershell
Update-Module oh-my-posh
```

🎉🎉🎉

[scoop]: https://scoop.sh/
[wt]: https://github.com/microsoft/terminal
[powershell]: https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/oh-my-posh
[configuration]: /docs/configure
