docs/docs/segment-kubectl.md, before:

---
id: kubectl
title: Kubectl Context
sidebar_label: Kubectl
---

## What

Display the currently active Kubernetes context name and namespace name.

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "kubectl",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#000000",
  "background": "#ebcc34",
  "properties": {
    "prefix": " \uFD31 ",
    "template": "{{.Context}}{{if .Namespace}} :: {{.Namespace}}{{end}}"
  }
}
```

## Properties

- template: `string` - A go [text/template][go-text-template] template extended with [sprig][sprig] utilizing the
properties below - defaults to `{{.Context}}{{if .Namespace}} :: {{.Namespace}}{{end}}`
- display_error: `boolean` - show the error context when failing to retrieve the kubectl information - defaults to `false`

## Template Properties

- `.Context`: `string` - the current kubectl context
- `.Namespace`: `string` - the current kubectl namespace

## Tips

It is common for the Kubernetes "default" namespace to be used when no namespace is provided. If you want your prompt to
 render an empty current namespace using the word "default", you can use something like this for the template:

`{{.Context}} :: {{if .Namespace}}{{.Namespace}}{{else}}default{{end}}`

[go-text-template]: https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/
[sprig]: https://masterminds.github.io/sprig/

Commit message:

feat: enable kubectl segment to read kubeconfig
This extends the kubectl segment to optionally not rely on the
kubectl command and instead to directly parse kubeconfig files like
kubectl does. This is meant as a performance optimization similar
to how the git segment can determine the current branch itself
without calling to git. Especially on Windows and in the presence
other factors slowing process creation like like AntiVirus this
can make shells using the segment considerably more responsive.

The functionality is enabled using the new parse_kubeconfig prop.
It defaults to false to prevent breaking existing users in case
there are any unanticipated behavioral changes.

Additionally the new template properties Cluster and User were
added as they are easily available and helpful in kubectl
setups with more elaborate configuration.

docs/docs/segment-kubectl.md, after:

---
id: kubectl
title: Kubectl Context
sidebar_label: Kubectl
---

## What

Display the currently active Kubernetes context name and namespace name.

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "kubectl",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#000000",
  "background": "#ebcc34",
  "properties": {
    "prefix": " \uFD31 ",
    "template": "{{.Context}}{{if .Namespace}} :: {{.Namespace}}{{end}}"
  }
}
```

## Properties

- template: `string` - A go [text/template][go-text-template] template extended with [sprig][sprig] utilizing the
properties below - defaults to `{{.Context}}{{if .Namespace}} :: {{.Namespace}}{{end}}`
- display_error: `boolean` - show the error context when failing to retrieve the kubectl information - defaults to `false`
- parse_kubeconfig: `boolean` - parse kubeconfig files instead of calling out to kubectl to improve
performance - defaults to `false`

## Template Properties

- `.Context`: `string` - the current kubectl context
- `.Namespace`: `string` - the current kubectl context namespace
- `.User`: `string` - the current kubectl context user
- `.Cluster`: `string` - the current kubectl context cluster

## Tips

It is common for the Kubernetes "default" namespace to be used when no namespace is provided. If you want your prompt to
 render an empty current namespace using the word "default", you can use something like this for the template:

`{{.Context}} :: {{if .Namespace}}{{.Namespace}}{{else}}default{{end}}`

[go-text-template]: https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/
[sprig]: https://masterminds.github.io/sprig/
