docs/docs/segment-az.md, before:

---
id: az
title: Azure Subscription
sidebar_label: Azure
---

## What

Display the currently active Azure subscription information.

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "az",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#000000",
  "background": "#9ec3f0",
  "properties": {
    "template": "{{ .EnvironmentName }}",
    "prefix": " \uFD03 "
  }
}
```

## Properties

- template: `string` - A go [text/template][go-text-template] template extended with [sprig][sprig] utilizing the
properties below - defaults to `{{.Name}}`

## Template Properties

- `.EnvironmentName`: `string` - the account environment name
- `.HomeTenantID`: `string` - the home tenant id
- `.ID`: `string` - the account/subscription id
- `.IsDefault`: `boolean` - is the default account or not
- `.Name`: `string` - the account name
- `.State`: `string` - the account state
- `.TenantID`: `string` - the tenant id
- `.User.Name`: `string` - the user name

[go-text-template]: https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/
[sprig]: https://masterminds.github.io/sprig/

Commit message:

docs(az): add .Origin info
relates to #1562

docs/docs/segment-az.md, after:

---
id: az
title: Azure Subscription
sidebar_label: Azure
---

## What

Display the currently active Azure subscription information.

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "az",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#000000",
  "background": "#9ec3f0",
  "properties": {
    "template": "{{ .EnvironmentName }}",
    "prefix": " \uFD03 "
  }
}
```

## Properties

- template: `string` - A go [text/template][go-text-template] template extended with [sprig][sprig] utilizing the
properties below - defaults to `{{.Name}}`

## Template Properties

- `.EnvironmentName`: `string` - the account environment name
- `.HomeTenantID`: `string` - the home tenant id
- `.ID`: `string` - the account/subscription id
- `.IsDefault`: `boolean` - is the default account or not
- `.Name`: `string` - the account name
- `.State`: `string` - the account state
- `.TenantID`: `string` - the tenant id
- `.User.Name`: `string` - the user name
- `.Origin`: `string` - where we received the information from, can be `CLI` or `PWSH`

[go-text-template]: https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/
[sprig]: https://masterminds.github.io/sprig/
