docs/docs/segment-java.md, before:

---
id: java
title: Java
sidebar_label: Java
---

## What

Display the currently active java version.

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "java",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#ffffff",
  "background": "#4063D8",
  "properties": {
    "prefix": " \uE738 "
  }
}
```

## Properties

- display_version: `boolean` - display the java version - defaults to `true`
- display_error: `boolean` - show the error context when failing to retrieve the version information - defaults to `true`
- missing_command_text: `string` - text to display when the java command is missing - defaults to empty
- display_mode: `string` - determines when the segment is displayed
  - `always`: the segment is always displayed
  - `files`: the segment is only displayed when one of the following files is present:
    - `pom.xml`
    - `build.gradle.kts`
    - `build.sbt`
    - `.java-version`
    - `.deps.edn`
    - `project.clj`
    - `build.boot`
    - `*.java`
    - `*.class`
    - `*.gradle`
    - `*.jar`
    - `*.clj`
    - `*.cljc`

Commit message:

feat(language): allow enabling or disabling HOME folder
closes #874

docs/docs/segment-java.md, after:

---
id: java
title: Java
sidebar_label: Java
---

## What

Display the currently active java version.

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "java",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#ffffff",
  "background": "#4063D8",
  "properties": {
    "prefix": " \uE738 "
  }
}
```

## Properties

- home_enabled: `boolean` - display the segment in the HOME folder or not - defaults to `false`
- display_version: `boolean` - display the java version - defaults to `true`
- display_error: `boolean` - show the error context when failing to retrieve the version information - defaults to `true`
- missing_command_text: `string` - text to display when the java command is missing - defaults to empty
- display_mode: `string` - determines when the segment is displayed
  - `always`: the segment is always displayed
  - `files`: the segment is only displayed when one of the following files is present:
    - `pom.xml`
    - `build.gradle.kts`
    - `build.sbt`
    - `.java-version`
    - `.deps.edn`
    - `project.clj`
    - `build.boot`
    - `*.java`
    - `*.class`
    - `*.gradle`
    - `*.jar`
    - `*.clj`
    - `*.cljc`
