website/docs/segments/az.mdx, before:

---
id: az
title: Azure Subscription
sidebar_label: Azure
---

## What

Display the currently active Azure subscription information.

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "az",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#000000",
  "background": "#9ec3f0",
  "template": " \uFD03 {{ .EnvironmentName }}"
}
```

## Properties

| Name     | Type     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| -------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `source` | `string` | <ul><li>`first_match`: try the CLI config first, then the PowerShell module. The first to resolve is displayed (**default**)</li><li>`cli`: fetch the information from the CLI config</li><li>`pwsh`: fetch the information from the PowerShell Module config</li></ul> |

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

```template
{{ .Name }}
```

:::

### Properties

| Name               | Type      | Description                                                    |
| ------------------ | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `.EnvironmentName` | `string`  | account environment name                                       |
| `.HomeTenantID`    | `string`  | home tenant id                                                 |
| `.ID`              | `string`  | account/subscription id                                        |
| `.IsDefault`       | `boolean` | is the default account or not                                  |
| `.Name`            | `string`  | account name                                                   |
| `.State`           | `string`  | account state                                                  |
| `.TenantID`        | `string`  | tenant id                                                      |
| `.User.Name`       | `string`  | user name                                                      |
| `.User.Type`       | `string`  | user type                                                      |
| `.Origin`          | `string`  | where we received the information from, can be `CLI` or `PWSH` |

[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates

Commit message:

feat(az): parse pwsh context from module output
this fixes an issue where using multiple powershell sessions with a
different Azure context would display the same context everywhere when
using Set-AzContext to switch between them

BREAKING CHANGE: this requires adding `$env:POSH_AZURE_ENABLED = $true`
to your PowerShell profile if you want to get the correct context
displayed in your prompt for Azure powershell

website/docs/segments/az.mdx, after:

---
id: az
title: Azure Subscription
sidebar_label: Azure
---

## What

Display the currently active Azure subscription information.

:::tip
PowerShell offers support for the [az][az] module, but it is disabled by default.
To enable this, set `$env:POSH_AZURE_ENABLED = $true` in your `$PROFILE` after
initializing Oh My Posh.
:::

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "az",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#000000",
  "background": "#9ec3f0",
  "template": " \uFD03 {{ .EnvironmentName }}"
}
```

## Properties

| Name     | Type     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| -------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `source` | `string` | <ul><li>`first_match`: try the CLI config first, then the PowerShell module. The first to resolve is displayed (**default**)</li><li>`cli`: fetch the information from the CLI config</li><li>`pwsh`: fetch the information from the PowerShell Module config</li></ul> |

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

```template
{{ .Name }}
```

:::

### Properties

| Name               | Type      | Description                                                    |
| ------------------ | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `.EnvironmentName` | `string`  | account environment name                                       |
| `.HomeTenantID`    | `string`  | home tenant id                                                 |
| `.ID`              | `string`  | account/subscription id                                        |
| `.IsDefault`       | `boolean` | is the default account or not                                  |
| `.Name`            | `string`  | account name                                                   |
| `.State`           | `string`  | account state                                                  |
| `.TenantID`        | `string`  | tenant id                                                      |
| `.User.Name`       | `string`  | user name                                                      |
| `.User.Type`       | `string`  | user type                                                      |
| `.Origin`          | `string`  | where we received the information from, can be `CLI` or `PWSH` |

[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates
