website/docs/segments/cftarget.mdx, before:

---
id: cftarget
title: Cloud Foundry Target
sidebar_label: Cloud Foundry Target
---

## What

Display the details of the logged [Cloud Foundry endpoint][cf-target] (`cf target` details).

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "background": "#a7cae1",
  "foreground": "#100e23",
  "powerline_symbol": "\ue0b0",
  "template": " \uf40a {{ .Org }}/{{ .Space }} ",
  "style": "powerline",
  "type": "cftarget"
}
```

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

```template
{{if .Org }}{{ .Org }}{{ end }}{{ if .Space }}/{{ .Space }}{{ end }}
```

:::

### Properties

| Name     | Type     | Description                |
| -------- | -------- | -------------------------- |
| `.Org`   | `string` | Cloud Foundry organization |
| `.Space` | `string` | Cloud Foundry space        |
| `.URL`   | `string` | Cloud Foundry API URL      |
| `.User`  | `string` | logged in user             |

[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates
[cf-target]: https://cli.cloudfoundry.org/en-US/v8/target.html

Commit message:

feat(cftarget): add display_mode

website/docs/segments/cftarget.mdx, after:

---
id: cftarget
title: Cloud Foundry Target
sidebar_label: Cloud Foundry Target
---

## What

Display the details of the logged [Cloud Foundry endpoint][cf-target] (`cf target` details).

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "background": "#a7cae1",
  "foreground": "#100e23",
  "powerline_symbol": "\ue0b0",
  "template": " \uf40a {{ .Org }}/{{ .Space }} ",
  "style": "powerline",
  "type": "cftarget"
}
```

## Properties

| Name           | Type     | Description                                                                                                                                                     |
| -------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `display_mode` | `string` | <ul><li>`always`: the segment is always displayed (**default**)</li><li>`files`: the segment is only displayed when a `manifest.yml` file is present </li></ul> |

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

```template
{{if .Org }}{{ .Org }}{{ end }}{{ if .Space }}/{{ .Space }}{{ end }}
```

:::

### Properties

| Name     | Type     | Description                |
| -------- | -------- | -------------------------- |
| `.Org`   | `string` | Cloud Foundry organization |
| `.Space` | `string` | Cloud Foundry space        |
| `.URL`   | `string` | Cloud Foundry API URL      |
| `.User`  | `string` | logged in user             |

[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates
[cf-target]: https://cli.cloudfoundry.org/en-US/v8/target.html
