website/docs/segments/command.mdx, before:

---
id: command
title: Command
sidebar_label: Command
---

## What

:::caution Powershell
While powerful, it tends to take a lot of time executing the command on **Powershell**.
Even with `–noprofile` it's noticeably slower compared to `sh`. It's advised to look at using
[environment variables][env] when using Powershell.
:::

Command allows you run an arbitrary shell command. Be aware it spawn a new process to fetch the result, meaning
it will not be able to fetch session based context (look at abusing [environment variables][env] for that).
When the command errors or returns an empty string, this segment isn't rendered.

You have the ability to use `||` or `&&` to stitch commands together and achieve complex results. When using `||`
the first command that returns a string will be used (or none when they all fail to produce output that's not an
error). The `&&` functionality will join the output of the commands when successful.

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "prompt",
  "alignment": "right",
  "segments": [
    {
      "type": "command",
      "style": "plain",
      "foreground": "#ffffff",
      "properties": {
        "shell": "bash",
        "command": "git log --pretty=format:%cr -1 || date +%H:%m:%S"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Properties

- shell: `string` - the shell in which to run the command in. Uses `shell -c command` under the hood.
- command: `string` - the command(s) to run

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

``` template
{{ .Output }}
```

:::

### Properties

- `.Output`: `string` - the output of the command.

[env]: /docs/configuration/templates#environment-variables
[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates

Commit message:

feat(command): run script
resolves #2556

website/docs/segments/command.mdx, after:

---
id: command
title: Command
sidebar_label: Command
---

## What

:::caution Powershell
While powerful, it tends to take a lot of time executing the command on **Powershell**.
Even with `–noprofile` it's noticeably slower compared to `sh`. It's advised to look at using
[environment variables][env] when using Powershell.
:::

Command allows you run an arbitrary shell command. Be aware it spawn a new process to fetch the result, meaning
it will not be able to fetch session based context (look at abusing [environment variables][env] for that).
When the command errors or returns an empty string, this segment isn't rendered.

You have the ability to use `||` or `&&` to stitch commands together and achieve complex results. When using `||`
the first command that returns a string will be used (or none when they all fail to produce output that's not an
error). The `&&` functionality will join the output of the commands when successful.

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "prompt",
  "alignment": "right",
  "segments": [
    {
      "type": "command",
      "style": "plain",
      "foreground": "#ffffff",
      "properties": {
        "shell": "bash",
        "command": "git log --pretty=format:%cr -1 || date +%H:%m:%S"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Properties

- shell: `string` - the shell in which to run the command in. Uses `shell -c command` under the hood.
- command: `string` - the command(s) to run
- script: `string` - the path to a script to run

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

``` template
{{ .Output }}
```

:::

### Properties

- `.Output`: `string` - the output of the command or script.

[env]: /docs/configuration/templates#environment-variables
[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates
