website/docs/segments/fossil.mdx, before:

---
id: fossil
title: Fossil
sidebar_label: Fossil
---

## What

Display [fossil][fossil] information when in a fossil repository.

Local changes can also be displayed which uses the following syntax:

- `+` added
- `!` conflicted
- `-` deleted
- `~` modified
- `>` moved

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "fossil",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#193549",
  "background": "#ffeb3b"
}
```

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

``` template
 \ufb2b {{.Branch}} {{.Status.String}}
```

:::

### Properties

- `.Status`: `FossilStatus` - changes in the worktree (see below)
- `.Branch`: `string` - current branch

### FossilStatus

- `.Modified`: `int` - number of edited, updated and changed files
- `.Deleted`: `int` - number of deleted files
- `.Added`: `int` - number of added files
- `.Moved`: `int` - number of renamed files
- `.Conflicted`: `int` - number of conflicting files
- `.Changed`: `boolean` - if the status contains changes or not
- `.HasConflicts`: `boolean` - if the status contains conflicts or not
- `.String`: `string` - a string representation of the changes above

[fossil]: https://fossil-scm.org
[templates]: /docs/config-templates
[hyperlinks]: /docs/config-templates#helper-functions

Commit message:

feat(wsl): allow using native executable on shared drive
relates to #2097

website/docs/segments/fossil.mdx, after:

---
id: fossil
title: Fossil
sidebar_label: Fossil
---

## What

Display [fossil][fossil] information when in a fossil repository.

Local changes can also be displayed which uses the following syntax:

- `+` added
- `!` conflicted
- `-` deleted
- `~` modified
- `>` moved

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "fossil",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#193549",
  "background": "#ffeb3b"
}
```

## Properties

- native_fallback: `boolean` - when set to `true` and `fossil.exe` is not available when inside a WSL2 shared Windows drive, we will fallback to the native fossil
executable to fetch data. Not all information can be displayed in this case. Defaults to `false`.

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

``` template
 \ufb2b {{.Branch}} {{.Status.String}}
```

:::

### Properties

- `.Status`: `FossilStatus` - changes in the worktree (see below)
- `.Branch`: `string` - current branch

### FossilStatus

- `.Modified`: `int` - number of edited, updated and changed files
- `.Deleted`: `int` - number of deleted files
- `.Added`: `int` - number of added files
- `.Moved`: `int` - number of renamed files
- `.Conflicted`: `int` - number of conflicting files
- `.Changed`: `boolean` - if the status contains changes or not
- `.HasConflicts`: `boolean` - if the status contains conflicts or not
- `.String`: `string` - a string representation of the changes above

[fossil]: https://fossil-scm.org
[templates]: /docs/config-templates
[hyperlinks]: /docs/config-templates#helper-functions
