website/docs/segments/git.mdx, before:

---
id: git
title: Git
sidebar_label: Git
---

## What

Display git information when in a git repository. Also works for subfolders. For maximum compatibility,
make sure your `git` executable is up-to-date (when branch or status information is incorrect for example).

Local changes can also be displayed which uses the following syntax for both the working and staging area:

- `+` added
- `~` modified
- `-` deleted
- `?` untracked

:::tip
PowerShell offers support for the [posh-git][poshgit] module for autocompletion, but it is disabled by default.
To enable this, set `$env:POSH_GIT_ENABLED = $true` in your `$PROFILE`. This will also make use of the
[posh-git][poshgit] output rather than do additional work to get the git status.
:::

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "git",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#193549",
  "background": "#ffeb3b",
  "background_templates": [
    "{{ if or (.Working.Changed) (.Staging.Changed) }}#FFEB3B{{ end }}",
    "{{ if and (gt .Ahead 0) (gt .Behind 0) }}#FFCC80{{ end }}",
    "{{ if gt .Ahead 0 }}#B388FF{{ end }}",
    "{{ if gt .Behind 0 }}#B388FB{{ end }}"
  ],
  "template": "{{ .UpstreamIcon }}{{ .HEAD }}{{if .BranchStatus }} {{ .BranchStatus }}{{ end }}{{ if .Working.Changed }} \uF044 {{ .Working.String }}{{ end }}{{ if and (.Working.Changed) (.Staging.Changed) }} |{{ end }}{{ if .Staging.Changed }} \uF046 {{ .Staging.String }}{{ end }}{{ if gt .StashCount 0 }} \uF692 {{ .StashCount }}{{ end }}",
  "properties": {
    "fetch_status": true,
    "fetch_stash_count": true,
    "fetch_upstream_icon": true,
    "untracked_modes": {
      "/Users/user/Projects/oh-my-posh/": "no"
    }
  }
}
```

## Properties

### Fetching information

As doing multiple git calls can slow down the prompt experience, we do not fetch information by default.
You can set the following properties to `true` to enable fetching additional information (and populate the template).

- fetch_status: `boolean` - fetch the local changes - defaults to `false`
- fetch_stash_count: `boolean` fetch stash count - defaults to `false`
- fetch_worktree_count: `boolean` fetch worktree count - defaults to `false`
- fetch_upstream_icon: `boolean` - fetch upstream icon - defaults to `false`
- untracked_modes: `map[string]string` - map of repo's where to override the default [untracked files mode][untracked] (`no` | `normal` | `all`). For example
`"untracked_modes": { "/Users/me/repos/repo1": "no" }` - defaults to `normal` for all repo's. If you want to override for all repo's, use
`*` to set the mode instead of the repo path.
- ignore_submodules: `map[string]string` - map of repo's where to change the [--ignore-submodules][submodules] flag (`none`, `untracked`, `dirty` or `all`).
For example `"ignore_submodules": { "/Users/me/repos/repo1": "all" }`. If you want to override for all repo's, use `*` to set the mode
instead of the repo path.

### Icons

#### Branch

- branch_icon: `string` - the icon to use in front of the git branch name - defaults to `\uE0A0 `
- branch_identical_icon: `string` - the icon to display when remote and local are identical - defaults to `\u2261`
- branch_ahead_icon: `string` - the icon to display when the local branch is ahead of its remote - defaults to `\u2191`
- branch_behind_icon: `string` - the icon to display when the local branch is behind its remote - defaults to `\u2193`
- branch_gone_icon: `string` - the icon to display when there's no remote branch - defaults to `\u2262`
- branch_max_length: `int` - the max length for the displayed branch name where `0` implies full length - defaults to `0`
- truncate_symbol: `string` - the icon to display when a branch name is truncated - defaults to empty

#### HEAD

- commit_icon: `string` - icon/text to display before the commit context (detached HEAD) - defaults to `\uF417`
- tag_icon: `string` - icon/text to display before the tag context - defaults to `\uF412`
- rebase_icon: `string` - icon/text to display before the context when in a rebase - defaults to `\uE728 `
- cherry_pick_icon: `string` - icon/text to display before the context when doing a cherry-pick - defaults to `\uE29B `
- revert_icon: `string` - icon/text to display before the context when doing a revert - defaults to `\uF0E2 `
- merge_icon: `string` icon/text to display before the merge context - defaults to `\uE727 `
- no_commits_icon: `string` icon/text to display when there are no commits in the repo - defaults to `\uF594 `

#### Upstream

- github_icon: `string` - icon/text to display when the upstream is Github - defaults to `\uF408 `
- gitlab_icon: `string` - icon/text to display when the upstream is Gitlab - defaults to `\uF296 `
- bitbucket_icon: `string` - icon/text to display when the upstream is Bitbucket - defaults to `\uF171 `
- azure_devops_icon: `string` - icon/text to display when the upstream is Azure DevOps - defaults to `\uFD03 `
- git_icon: `string` - icon/text to display when the upstream is not known/mapped - defaults to `\uE5FB `

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

``` template
{{ .HEAD }}{{if .BranchStatus }} {{ .BranchStatus }}{{ end }}{{ if .Working.Changed }} \uF044 {{ .Working.String }}{{ end }}{{ if and (.Staging.Changed) (.Working.Changed) }} |{{ end }}{{ if .Staging.Changed }} \uF046 {{ .Staging.String }}{{ end }}{{ if gt .StashCount 0}} \uF692 {{ .StashCount }}{{ end }}{{ if gt .WorktreeCount 0}} \uf1bb {{ .WorktreeCount }}{{ end }}
```

:::

### Properties

- `.RepoName`: `string` - the repo folder name
- `.Working`: `GitStatus` - changes in the worktree (see below)
- `.Staging`: `GitStatus` - staged changes in the work tree (see below)
- `.HEAD`: `string` - the current HEAD context (branch/rebase/merge/...)
- `.Ref`: `string` - the current HEAD reference (branch/tag/...)
- `.Behind`: `int` - commits behind of upstream
- `.Ahead`: `int` - commits ahead of upstream
- `.BranchStatus`: `string` - the current branch context (ahead/behind string representation)
- `.Upstream`: `string` - the upstream name (remote)
- `.UpstreamGone`: `boolean` - whether the upstream is gone (no remote)
- `.UpstreamIcon`: `string` - the upstream icon (based on the icons above)
- `.UpstreamURL`: `string` - the upstream URL for use in [hyperlinks][hyperlinks] in templates: `{{ url .UpstreamIcon .UpstreamURL }}`
- `.StashCount`: `int` - the stash count
- `.WorktreeCount`: `int` - the worktree count
- `.IsWorkTree`: `boolean` - if in a worktree repo or not
- `.Dir`: `string` - the repository's root directory
- `.Kraken`: `string` - a link to the current HEAD in [GitKraken][kraken-ref] for use in [hyperlinks][hyperlinks] in templates `{{ url .HEAD .Kraken }}`

### GitStatus

- `.Unmerged`: `int` - number of unmerged changes
- `.Deleted`: `int` - number of deleted changes
- `.Added`: `int` - number of added changes
- `.Modified`: `int` - number of modified changes
- `.Changed`: `boolean` - if the status contains changes or not
- `.String`: `string` - a string representation of the changes above

[poshgit]: /docs/segments/poshgit
[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates
[hyperlinks]: /docs/configuration/templates#helper-functions
[untracked]: https://git-scm.com/docs/git-status#Documentation/git-status.txt---untracked-filesltmodegt
[submodules]: https://git-scm.com/docs/git-status#Documentation/git-status.txt---ignore-submodulesltwhengt
[kraken-ref]: https://www.gitkraken.com/invite/nQmDPR9D

Commit message:

feat(wsl): allow using native executable on shared drive
relates to #2097

website/docs/segments/git.mdx, after:

---
id: git
title: Git
sidebar_label: Git
---

## What

Display git information when in a git repository. Also works for subfolders. For maximum compatibility,
make sure your `git` executable is up-to-date (when branch or status information is incorrect for example).

Local changes can also be displayed which uses the following syntax for both the working and staging area:

- `+` added
- `~` modified
- `-` deleted
- `?` untracked

:::tip
PowerShell offers support for the [posh-git][poshgit] module for autocompletion, but it is disabled by default.
To enable this, set `$env:POSH_GIT_ENABLED = $true` in your `$PROFILE`. This will also make use of the
[posh-git][poshgit] output rather than do additional work to get the git status.
:::

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "git",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#193549",
  "background": "#ffeb3b",
  "background_templates": [
    "{{ if or (.Working.Changed) (.Staging.Changed) }}#FFEB3B{{ end }}",
    "{{ if and (gt .Ahead 0) (gt .Behind 0) }}#FFCC80{{ end }}",
    "{{ if gt .Ahead 0 }}#B388FF{{ end }}",
    "{{ if gt .Behind 0 }}#B388FB{{ end }}"
  ],
  "template": "{{ .UpstreamIcon }}{{ .HEAD }}{{if .BranchStatus }} {{ .BranchStatus }}{{ end }}{{ if .Working.Changed }} \uF044 {{ .Working.String }}{{ end }}{{ if and (.Working.Changed) (.Staging.Changed) }} |{{ end }}{{ if .Staging.Changed }} \uF046 {{ .Staging.String }}{{ end }}{{ if gt .StashCount 0 }} \uF692 {{ .StashCount }}{{ end }}",
  "properties": {
    "fetch_status": true,
    "fetch_stash_count": true,
    "fetch_upstream_icon": true,
    "untracked_modes": {
      "/Users/user/Projects/oh-my-posh/": "no"
    }
  }
}
```

## Properties

### Fetching information

As doing multiple git calls can slow down the prompt experience, we do not fetch information by default.
You can set the following properties to `true` to enable fetching additional information (and populate the template).

- fetch_status: `boolean` - fetch the local changes - defaults to `false`
- fetch_stash_count: `boolean` fetch stash count - defaults to `false`
- fetch_worktree_count: `boolean` fetch worktree count - defaults to `false`
- fetch_upstream_icon: `boolean` - fetch upstream icon - defaults to `false`
- untracked_modes: `map[string]string` - map of repo's where to override the default [untracked files mode][untracked] (`no` | `normal` | `all`). For example
`"untracked_modes": { "/Users/me/repos/repo1": "no" }` - defaults to `normal` for all repo's. If you want to override for all repo's, use
`*` to set the mode instead of the repo path.
- ignore_submodules: `map[string]string` - map of repo's where to change the [--ignore-submodules][submodules] flag (`none`, `untracked`, `dirty` or `all`).
For example `"ignore_submodules": { "/Users/me/repos/repo1": "all" }`. If you want to override for all repo's, use `*` to set the mode
instead of the repo path.
- native_fallback: `boolean` - when set to `true` and `git.exe` is not available when inside a WSL2 shared Windows drive, we will fallback to the native git
executable to fetch data. Not all information can be displayed in this case. Defaults to `false`.

### Icons

#### Branch

- branch_icon: `string` - the icon to use in front of the git branch name - defaults to `\uE0A0 `
- branch_identical_icon: `string` - the icon to display when remote and local are identical - defaults to `\u2261`
- branch_ahead_icon: `string` - the icon to display when the local branch is ahead of its remote - defaults to `\u2191`
- branch_behind_icon: `string` - the icon to display when the local branch is behind its remote - defaults to `\u2193`
- branch_gone_icon: `string` - the icon to display when there's no remote branch - defaults to `\u2262`
- branch_max_length: `int` - the max length for the displayed branch name where `0` implies full length - defaults to `0`
- truncate_symbol: `string` - the icon to display when a branch name is truncated - defaults to empty

#### HEAD

- commit_icon: `string` - icon/text to display before the commit context (detached HEAD) - defaults to `\uF417`
- tag_icon: `string` - icon/text to display before the tag context - defaults to `\uF412`
- rebase_icon: `string` - icon/text to display before the context when in a rebase - defaults to `\uE728 `
- cherry_pick_icon: `string` - icon/text to display before the context when doing a cherry-pick - defaults to `\uE29B `
- revert_icon: `string` - icon/text to display before the context when doing a revert - defaults to `\uF0E2 `
- merge_icon: `string` icon/text to display before the merge context - defaults to `\uE727 `
- no_commits_icon: `string` icon/text to display when there are no commits in the repo - defaults to `\uF594 `

#### Upstream

- github_icon: `string` - icon/text to display when the upstream is Github - defaults to `\uF408 `
- gitlab_icon: `string` - icon/text to display when the upstream is Gitlab - defaults to `\uF296 `
- bitbucket_icon: `string` - icon/text to display when the upstream is Bitbucket - defaults to `\uF171 `
- azure_devops_icon: `string` - icon/text to display when the upstream is Azure DevOps - defaults to `\uFD03 `
- git_icon: `string` - icon/text to display when the upstream is not known/mapped - defaults to `\uE5FB `

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

``` template
{{ .HEAD }}{{if .BranchStatus }} {{ .BranchStatus }}{{ end }}{{ if .Working.Changed }} \uF044 {{ .Working.String }}{{ end }}{{ if and (.Staging.Changed) (.Working.Changed) }} |{{ end }}{{ if .Staging.Changed }} \uF046 {{ .Staging.String }}{{ end }}{{ if gt .StashCount 0}} \uF692 {{ .StashCount }}{{ end }}{{ if gt .WorktreeCount 0}} \uf1bb {{ .WorktreeCount }}{{ end }}
```

:::

### Properties

- `.RepoName`: `string` - the repo folder name
- `.Working`: `GitStatus` - changes in the worktree (see below)
- `.Staging`: `GitStatus` - staged changes in the work tree (see below)
- `.HEAD`: `string` - the current HEAD context (branch/rebase/merge/...)
- `.Ref`: `string` - the current HEAD reference (branch/tag/...)
- `.Behind`: `int` - commits behind of upstream
- `.Ahead`: `int` - commits ahead of upstream
- `.BranchStatus`: `string` - the current branch context (ahead/behind string representation)
- `.Upstream`: `string` - the upstream name (remote)
- `.UpstreamGone`: `boolean` - whether the upstream is gone (no remote)
- `.UpstreamIcon`: `string` - the upstream icon (based on the icons above)
- `.UpstreamURL`: `string` - the upstream URL for use in [hyperlinks][hyperlinks] in templates: `{{ url .UpstreamIcon .UpstreamURL }}`
- `.StashCount`: `int` - the stash count
- `.WorktreeCount`: `int` - the worktree count
- `.IsWorkTree`: `boolean` - if in a worktree repo or not
- `.Dir`: `string` - the repository's root directory
- `.Kraken`: `string` - a link to the current HEAD in [GitKraken][kraken-ref] for use in [hyperlinks][hyperlinks] in templates `{{ url .HEAD .Kraken }}`

### GitStatus

- `.Unmerged`: `int` - number of unmerged changes
- `.Deleted`: `int` - number of deleted changes
- `.Added`: `int` - number of added changes
- `.Modified`: `int` - number of modified changes
- `.Changed`: `boolean` - if the status contains changes or not
- `.String`: `string` - a string representation of the changes above

[poshgit]: /docs/segments/poshgit
[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates
[hyperlinks]: /docs/configuration/templates#helper-functions
[untracked]: https://git-scm.com/docs/git-status#Documentation/git-status.txt---untracked-filesltmodegt
[submodules]: https://git-scm.com/docs/git-status#Documentation/git-status.txt---ignore-submodulesltwhengt
[kraken-ref]: https://www.gitkraken.com/invite/nQmDPR9D
