website/docs/segments/os.mdx, before:

---
id: os
title: OS
sidebar_label: OS
---

## What

Display OS specific info - defaults to Icon.

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "os",
  "style": "plain",
  "foreground": "#26C6DA",
  "background": "#546E7A",
  "template": " {{ if .WSL }}WSL at {{ end }}{{.Icon}}\uE0B1",
  "properties": {
    "macos": "mac"
  }
}
```

## Properties

| Name                  | Type      | Description                                                                         |
| --------------------- | --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `macos`               | `string`  | the string to use for macOS - defaults to macOS icon - defaults to `\uF179`         |
| `linux`               | `string`  | the icon to use for Linux - defaults to Linux icon - defaults to `\uF17C`           |
| `windows`             | `string`  | the icon to use for Windows - defaults to Windows icon - defaults to `\uE62A`       |
| `display_distro_name` | `boolean` | display the distro name or icon (for WSL and Linux) - defaults to `false`           |
| `alpine`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Alpine - defaults to Alpine icon - defaults to `\uF300`         |
| `aosc`                | `string`  | the icon to use for Aosc - defaults to Aosc icon - defaults to `\uF301`             |
| `arch`                | `string`  | the icon to use for Arch - defaults to Arch icon - defaults to `\uF303`             |
| `centos`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Centos - defaults to Centos icon - defaults to `\uF304`         |
| `coreos`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Coreos - defaults to Coreos icon - defaults to `\uF305`         |
| `debian`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Debian - defaults to Debian icon - defaults to `\uF306`         |
| `devuan`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Devuan - defaults to Devuan icon - defaults to `\uF307`         |
| `raspbian`            | `string`  | the icon to use for Raspbian - defaults to Raspbian icon - defaults to `\uF315`     |
| `elementary`          | `string`  | the icon to use for Elementary - defaults to Elementary icon - defaults to `\uF309` |
| `fedora`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Fedora - defaults to Fedora icon - defaults to `\uF30a`         |
| `gentoo`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Gentoo - defaults to Gentoo icon - defaults to `\uF30d`         |
| `mageia`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Mageia - defaults to Mageia icon - defaults to `\uF310`         |
| `manjaro`             | `string`  | the icon to use for Manjaro - defaults to Manjaro icon - defaults to `\uF312`       |
| `mint`                | `string`  | the icon to use for Mint - defaults to Mint icon - defaults to `\uF30e`             |
| `nixos`               | `string`  | the icon to use for Nixos - defaults to Nixos icon - defaults to `\uF313`           |
| `opensuse`            | `string`  | the icon to use for Opensuse - defaults to Opensuse icon - defaults to `\uF314`     |
| `sabayon`             | `string`  | the icon to use for Sabayon - defaults to Sabayon icon - defaults to `\uF317`       |
| `slackware`           | `string`  | the icon to use for Slackware - defaults to Slackware icon - defaults to `\uF319`   |
| `ubuntu`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Ubuntu - defaults to Ubuntu icon - defaults to `\uF31b`         |

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

```template
{{ if .WSL }}WSL at {{ end }}{{.Icon}}
```

:::

### Properties

| Name    | Type     | Description |
| ------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `.Icon` | `string` | the OS icon |

[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates

Commit message:

feat(os): add Redhat icon

website/docs/segments/os.mdx, after:

---
id: os
title: OS
sidebar_label: OS
---

## What

Display OS specific info - defaults to Icon.

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "os",
  "style": "plain",
  "foreground": "#26C6DA",
  "background": "#546E7A",
  "template": " {{ if .WSL }}WSL at {{ end }}{{.Icon}}\uE0B1",
  "properties": {
    "macos": "mac"
  }
}
```

## Properties

| Name                  | Type      | Description                                                                         |
| --------------------- | --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `macos`               | `string`  | the string to use for macOS - defaults to macOS icon - defaults to `\uF179`         |
| `linux`               | `string`  | the icon to use for Linux - defaults to Linux icon - defaults to `\uF17C`           |
| `windows`             | `string`  | the icon to use for Windows - defaults to Windows icon - defaults to `\uE62A`       |
| `display_distro_name` | `boolean` | display the distro name or icon (for WSL and Linux) - defaults to `false`           |
| `alpine`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Alpine - defaults to Alpine icon - defaults to `\uF300`         |
| `aosc`                | `string`  | the icon to use for Aosc - defaults to Aosc icon - defaults to `\uF301`             |
| `arch`                | `string`  | the icon to use for Arch - defaults to Arch icon - defaults to `\uF303`             |
| `centos`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Centos - defaults to Centos icon - defaults to `\uF304`         |
| `coreos`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Coreos - defaults to Coreos icon - defaults to `\uF305`         |
| `debian`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Debian - defaults to Debian icon - defaults to `\uF306`         |
| `devuan`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Devuan - defaults to Devuan icon - defaults to `\uF307`         |
| `raspbian`            | `string`  | the icon to use for Raspbian - defaults to Raspbian icon - defaults to `\uF315`     |
| `elementary`          | `string`  | the icon to use for Elementary - defaults to Elementary icon - defaults to `\uF309` |
| `fedora`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Fedora - defaults to Fedora icon - defaults to `\uF30a`         |
| `gentoo`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Gentoo - defaults to Gentoo icon - defaults to `\uF30d`         |
| `mageia`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Mageia - defaults to Mageia icon - defaults to `\uF310`         |
| `manjaro`             | `string`  | the icon to use for Manjaro - defaults to Manjaro icon - defaults to `\uF312`       |
| `mint`                | `string`  | the icon to use for Mint - defaults to Mint icon - defaults to `\uF30e`             |
| `nixos`               | `string`  | the icon to use for Nixos - defaults to Nixos icon - defaults to `\uF313`           |
| `opensuse`            | `string`  | the icon to use for Opensuse - defaults to Opensuse icon - defaults to `\uF314`     |
| `redhat`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Redhat - defaults to Redhat icon - defaults to `\uF316`         |
| `sabayon`             | `string`  | the icon to use for Sabayon - defaults to Sabayon icon - defaults to `\uF317`       |
| `slackware`           | `string`  | the icon to use for Slackware - defaults to Slackware icon - defaults to `\uF319`   |
| `ubuntu`              | `string`  | the icon to use for Ubuntu - defaults to Ubuntu icon - defaults to `\uF31b`         |

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

```template
{{ if .WSL }}WSL at {{ end }}{{.Icon}}
```

:::

### Properties

| Name    | Type     | Description |
| ------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `.Icon` | `string` | the OS icon |

[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates
