website/docs/segments/path.mdx, before:

---
id: path
title: Path
sidebar_label: Path
---

## What

Display the current path.

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "path",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#ffffff",
  "background": "#61AFEF",
  "properties": {
    "style": "folder",
    "mapped_locations": {
      "C:\\temp": "\ue799"
    }
  }
}
```

## Properties

| Name                        | Type      | Description                                                                                                                  |
| --------------------------- | --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `folder_separator_icon`     | `string`  | the symbol to use as a separator between folders - defaults to platform path separator                                       |
| `folder_separator_template` | `string`  | the [template][templates] to use as a separator between folders - defaults to ``                                             |
| `home_icon`                 | `string`  | the icon to display when at `$HOME`, defaults to `~`                                                                         |
| `folder_icon`               | `string`  | the icon to use as a folder indication - defaults to `..`                                                                    |
| `windows_registry_icon`     | `string`  | the icon to display when in the Windows registry - defaults to `\uE0B1`                                                      |
| `style`                     | `enum`    | how to display the current path                                                                                              |
| `mixed_threshold`           | `number`  | the maximum length of a path segment that will be displayed when using `Mixed` - defaults to `4`                             |
| `max_depth`                 | `number`  | maximum path depth to display before shortening when using `agnoster_short`, defaults to `1`                                 |
| `hide_root_location`        | `boolean` | hides the root location if it doesn't fit in the last `max_depth` folders, when using `agnoster_short` - defaults to `false` |

## Mapped Locations

Allows you to override a location with an icon/string.
It validates if the current path **starts with the specific elements** and replaces it with the icon/string if there's a match.
To avoid issues with nested overrides, Oh My Posh will sort the list of mapped locations before doing a replacement.

| Name                       | Type      | Description                                                                                              |
| -------------------------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `mapped_locations_enabled` | `boolean` | replace known locations in the path with the replacements before applying the style - defaults to `true` |
| `mapped_locations`         | `object`  | custom glyph/text for specific paths. Works regardless of the `mapped_locations_enabled`                 |

setting.

For example, to swap out `C:\Users\Leet\GitHub` with a GitHub icon, you can do the following:

```json
"mapped_locations": {
  "C:\\Users\\Leet\\GitHub": "\uF09B"
}
```

### Notes

- To make mapped locations work cross-platform, use `/` as the path separator, Oh My Posh will
  automatically match effective separators based on the running operating system.
- If you want to match all child directories, you can use `*` as a wildcard, for example:
  `"C:/Users/Bill/*": "$"` will turn `C:/Users/Bill/Downloads` into `$/Downloads`.
- The character `~` at the start of a mapped location will match the user's home directory.
- The match is case-insensitive on Windows and macOS, but case-sensitive on other operating systems. This means that for
  user Bill, who has a user account `Bill` on Windows and `bill` on Linux, `~/Foo` might match
  `C:\Users\Bill\Foo` or `C:\Users\Bill\foo` on Windows but only `/home/bill/Foo` on Linux.

## Style

Style sets the way the path is displayed. Based on previous experience and popular themes, there are 5 flavors.

- `agnoster`
- `agnoster_full`
- `agnoster_short`
- `agnoster_left`
- `full`
- `folder`
- `mixed`
- `letter`
- `unique`

### Agnoster

Renders each intermediate folder as the `folder_icon` separated by the `folder_separator_icon`.
The first and the last (current) folder name are always displayed as-is.

### Agnoster Full

Renders each folder name separated by the `folder_separator_icon`.

### Agnoster Short

When more than `max_depth` levels deep, it renders one `folder_icon` (if `hide_root_location` is `false`,
which means the root folder does not count for depth) followed by the names of the last `max_depth` folders,
separated by the `folder_separator_icon`.

### Agnoster Left

Renders each folder as the `folder_icon` separated by the `folder_separator_icon`.
Only the first folder name and its child are displayed in full.

### Full

Display the current working directory as a full string with each folder separated by the `folder_separator_icon`.

### Folder

Display the name of the current folder.

### Mixed

Works like `Agnoster`, but for any intermediate folder name that is short enough, it will be displayed as-is.
The maximum length for the folders to display is governed by the `mixed_threshold` property.

### Letter

Works like `Agnoster Full`, but will write every folder name using the first letter only, except when the folder name
starts with a symbol or icon. Specially, the last (current) folder name is always displayed in full.

- `folder` will be shortened to `f`
- `.config` will be shortened to `.c`
- `__pycache__` will be shortened to `__p`
- `➼ folder` will be shortened to `➼ f`

### Unique

Works like `Letter`, but will make sure every folder name is the shortest unique value.

The uniqueness refers to the displayed path, so `C:\dev\dev\dev\development` will be displayed as
`C\d\de\dev\development` (instead of `C\d\d\d\development` for `Letter`). Uniqueness does **not** refer to other
folders at the same level, so if `C:\projectA\dev` and `C:\projectB\dev` exist, then both will be displayed as
`C\p\dev`.

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

```template
{{ .Path }}
```

:::

### Properties

| Name          | Type      | Description                                                                                                                                                            |
| ------------- | --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `.Path`       | `string`  | the current directory (based on the `style` property)                                                                                                                  |
| `.Parent`     | `string`  | the current directory's parent folder which ends with a path separator (designed for use with style `folder`, it is empty if `.Path` contains only one single element) |
| `.RootDir`    | `boolean` | true if we're at the root directory (no parent)                                                                                                                        |
| `.Location`   | `string`  | the current directory (raw value)                                                                                                                                      |
| `.StackCount` | `int`     | the stack count                                                                                                                                                        |
| `.Writable`   | `boolean` | is the current directory writable by the user or not                                                                                                                   |

[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates

Commit message:

feat(path): add powerlevel style
resolves #3607

website/docs/segments/path.mdx, after:

---
id: path
title: Path
sidebar_label: Path
---

## What

Display the current path.

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "path",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#ffffff",
  "background": "#61AFEF",
  "properties": {
    "style": "folder",
    "mapped_locations": {
      "C:\\temp": "\ue799"
    }
  }
}
```

## Properties

| Name                        | Type      | Description                                                                                                                  |
| --------------------------- | --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `folder_separator_icon`     | `string`  | the symbol to use as a separator between folders - defaults to platform path separator                                       |
| `folder_separator_template` | `string`  | the [template][templates] to use as a separator between folders - defaults to ``                                             |
| `home_icon`                 | `string`  | the icon to display when at `$HOME`, defaults to `~`                                                                         |
| `folder_icon`               | `string`  | the icon to use as a folder indication - defaults to `..`                                                                    |
| `windows_registry_icon`     | `string`  | the icon to display when in the Windows registry - defaults to `\uE0B1`                                                      |
| `style`                     | `enum`    | how to display the current path                                                                                              |
| `mixed_threshold`           | `number`  | the maximum length of a path segment that will be displayed when using `Mixed` - defaults to `4`                             |
| `max_depth`                 | `number`  | maximum path depth to display before shortening when using `agnoster_short`, defaults to `1`                                 |
| `max_width`                 | `number`  | maximum path length to display when using `powerlevel`, defaults to `0`                                                      |
| `hide_root_location`        | `boolean` | hides the root location if it doesn't fit in the last `max_depth` folders, when using `agnoster_short` - defaults to `false` |

## Mapped Locations

Allows you to override a location with an icon/string.
It validates if the current path **starts with the specific elements** and replaces it with the icon/string if there's a match.
To avoid issues with nested overrides, Oh My Posh will sort the list of mapped locations before doing a replacement.

| Name                       | Type      | Description                                                                                              |
| -------------------------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `mapped_locations_enabled` | `boolean` | replace known locations in the path with the replacements before applying the style - defaults to `true` |
| `mapped_locations`         | `object`  | custom glyph/text for specific paths. Works regardless of the `mapped_locations_enabled`                 |

setting.

For example, to swap out `C:\Users\Leet\GitHub` with a GitHub icon, you can do the following:

```json
"mapped_locations": {
  "C:\\Users\\Leet\\GitHub": "\uF09B"
}
```

### Notes

- To make mapped locations work cross-platform, use `/` as the path separator, Oh My Posh will
  automatically match effective separators based on the running operating system.
- If you want to match all child directories, you can use `*` as a wildcard, for example:
  `"C:/Users/Bill/*": "$"` will turn `C:/Users/Bill/Downloads` into `$/Downloads`.
- The character `~` at the start of a mapped location will match the user's home directory.
- The match is case-insensitive on Windows and macOS, but case-sensitive on other operating systems. This means that for
  user Bill, who has a user account `Bill` on Windows and `bill` on Linux, `~/Foo` might match
  `C:\Users\Bill\Foo` or `C:\Users\Bill\foo` on Windows but only `/home/bill/Foo` on Linux.

## Style

Style sets the way the path is displayed. Based on previous experience and popular themes, there are 10 flavors.

- `agnoster`
- `agnoster_full`
- `agnoster_short`
- `agnoster_left`
- `full`
- `folder`
- `mixed`
- `letter`
- `unique`
- `powerlevel`

### Agnoster

Renders each intermediate folder as the `folder_icon` separated by the `folder_separator_icon`.
The first and the last (current) folder name are always displayed as-is.

### Agnoster Full

Renders each folder name separated by the `folder_separator_icon`.

### Agnoster Short

When more than `max_depth` levels deep, it renders one `folder_icon` (if `hide_root_location` is `false`,
which means the root folder does not count for depth) followed by the names of the last `max_depth` folders,
separated by the `folder_separator_icon`.

### Agnoster Left

Renders each folder as the `folder_icon` separated by the `folder_separator_icon`.
Only the first folder name and its child are displayed in full.

### Full

Display the current working directory as a full string with each folder separated by the `folder_separator_icon`.

### Folder

Display the name of the current folder.

### Mixed

Works like `Agnoster`, but for any intermediate folder name that is short enough, it will be displayed as-is.
The maximum length for the folders to display is governed by the `mixed_threshold` property.

### Letter

Works like `Agnoster Full`, but will write every folder name using the first letter only, except when the folder name
starts with a symbol or icon. Specially, the last (current) folder name is always displayed in full.

- `folder` will be shortened to `f`
- `.config` will be shortened to `.c`
- `__pycache__` will be shortened to `__p`
- `➼ folder` will be shortened to `➼ f`

### Unique

Works like `Letter`, but will make sure every folder name is the shortest unique value.

The uniqueness refers to the displayed path, so `C:\dev\dev\dev\development` will be displayed as
`C\d\de\dev\development` (instead of `C\d\d\d\development` for `Letter`). Uniqueness does **not** refer to other
folders at the same level, so if `C:\projectA\dev` and `C:\projectB\dev` exist, then both will be displayed as
`C\p\dev`.

### Powerlevel

Works like `Unique`, but will stop shortening when `max_width` is reached.

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

```template
{{ .Path }}
```

:::

### Properties

| Name          | Type      | Description                                                                                                                                                            |
| ------------- | --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `.Path`       | `string`  | the current directory (based on the `style` property)                                                                                                                  |
| `.Parent`     | `string`  | the current directory's parent folder which ends with a path separator (designed for use with style `folder`, it is empty if `.Path` contains only one single element) |
| `.RootDir`    | `boolean` | true if we're at the root directory (no parent)                                                                                                                        |
| `.Location`   | `string`  | the current directory (raw value)                                                                                                                                      |
| `.StackCount` | `int`     | the stack count                                                                                                                                                        |
| `.Writable`   | `boolean` | is the current directory writable by the user or not                                                                                                                   |

[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates
