website/docs/segments/project.mdx, before:

---
id: project
title: Project
sidebar_label: Project
---

## What

Display the current version of your project defined in the package file.

Supports:

- Node.js project (`package.json`)
- Cargo project (`Cargo.toml`)
- Poetry project (`pyproject.toml`)
- PHP project (`composer.json`)
- Any nuspec based project (`*.nuspec`, first file match info is displayed)
- .NET project (`*.csproj`, `*.vbproj` or `*.fsproj`, first file match info is displayed)
- Julia project (`JuliaProject.toml`, `Project.toml`)

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "project",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#193549",
  "background": "#ffeb3b",
  "template": " {{ if .Error }}{{ .Error }}{{ else }}{{ if .Version }}\uf487 {{.Version}}{{ end }} {{ if .Name }}{{ .Name }}{{ end }}{{ end }} "
}
```

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

```template
 {{ if .Error }}{{ .Error }}{{ else }}{{ if .Version }}\uf487 {{.Version}}{{ end }} {{ if .Name }}{{ .Name }}{{ end }}{{ end }}
```

:::

### Properties

| Name       | Type     | Description                                          |
| ---------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `.Version` | `string` | The version of your project                          |
| `.Target`  | `string` | The target framwork/language version of your project |
| `.Name`    | `string` | The name of your project                             |

[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates

Commit message:

docs(project): add .Error reference

website/docs/segments/project.mdx, after:

---
id: project
title: Project
sidebar_label: Project
---

## What

Display the current version of your project defined in the package file.

Supports:

- Node.js project (`package.json`)
- Cargo project (`Cargo.toml`)
- Poetry project (`pyproject.toml`)
- PHP project (`composer.json`)
- Any nuspec based project (`*.nuspec`, first file match info is displayed)
- .NET project (`*.csproj`, `*.vbproj` or `*.fsproj`, first file match info is displayed)
- Julia project (`JuliaProject.toml`, `Project.toml`)

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "project",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#193549",
  "background": "#ffeb3b",
  "template": " {{ if .Error }}{{ .Error }}{{ else }}{{ if .Version }}\uf487 {{.Version}}{{ end }} {{ if .Name }}{{ .Name }}{{ end }}{{ end }} "
}
```

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

```template
 {{ if .Error }}{{ .Error }}{{ else }}{{ if .Version }}\uf487 {{.Version}}{{ end }} {{ if .Name }}{{ .Name }}{{ end }}{{ end }}
```

:::

### Properties

| Name       | Type     | Description                                            |
| ---------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `.Version` | `string` | The version of your project                            |
| `.Target`  | `string` | The target framwork/language version of your project   |
| `.Name`    | `string` | The name of your project                               |
| `.Error`   | `string` | The error context when we can't fetch the project info |

[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates
