website/docs/segments/spotify.mdx, before:

---
id: spotify
title: Spotify
sidebar_label: Spotify
---

## What

Show the currently playing song in the [Spotify][spotify] macOS/Windows clients.

:::caution
Be aware this can make the prompt a tad bit slower as it needs to get a response from the Spotify player.

On _macOS_, all states are supported (playing/paused/stopped).
On _Windows/WSL_, **only the playing state is supported** (no information when paused/stopped).
:::

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "spotify",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#ffffff",
  "background": "#1BD760",
  "properties": {
    "playing_icon": "\uE602 ",
    "paused_icon": "\uF8E3 ",
    "stopped_icon": "\uF04D "
  }
}
```

## Properties

| Name           | Type     | Description                                            |
| -------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `playing_icon` | `string` | text/icon to show when playing - defaults to `\uE602 ` |
| `paused_icon`  | `string` | text/icon to show when paused - defaults to `\uF8E3 `  |
| `stopped_icon` | `string` | text/icon to show when stopped - defaults to `\uF04D ` |

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

```template
{{ .Icon }}{{ if ne .Status \"stopped\" }}{{ .Artist }} - {{ .Track }}{{ end }}
```

:::

### Properties

| Name      | Type     | Description                                    |
| --------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `.Status` | `string` | player status (`playing`, `paused`, `stopped`) |
| `.Artist` | `string` | current artist                                 |
| `.Track`  | `string` | current track                                  |
| `.Icon`   | `string` | icon (based on `.Status`)                      |

[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates
[spotify]: https://www.spotify.com

Commit message:

docs(spotify): clarify supported applications
relates to #3310

website/docs/segments/spotify.mdx, after:

---
id: spotify
title: Spotify
sidebar_label: Spotify
---

## What

Show the currently playing song in the [Spotify][spotify] macOS/Windows clients.

:::caution
Be aware this can make the prompt a tad bit slower as it needs to get a response from the Spotify player.

On _macOS_, all states are supported (playing/paused/stopped).

On _Windows/WSL_, **only the playing state is supported** (no information when paused/stopped). It supports
fetching information from the native Spotify application and Edge PWA.
:::

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "spotify",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#ffffff",
  "background": "#1BD760",
  "properties": {
    "playing_icon": "\uE602 ",
    "paused_icon": "\uF8E3 ",
    "stopped_icon": "\uF04D "
  }
}
```

## Properties

| Name           | Type     | Description                                            |
| -------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `playing_icon` | `string` | text/icon to show when playing - defaults to `\uE602 ` |
| `paused_icon`  | `string` | text/icon to show when paused - defaults to `\uF8E3 `  |
| `stopped_icon` | `string` | text/icon to show when stopped - defaults to `\uF04D ` |

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

```template
{{ .Icon }}{{ if ne .Status \"stopped\" }}{{ .Artist }} - {{ .Track }}{{ end }}
```

:::

### Properties

| Name      | Type     | Description                                    |
| --------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `.Status` | `string` | player status (`playing`, `paused`, `stopped`) |
| `.Artist` | `string` | current artist                                 |
| `.Track`  | `string` | current track                                  |
| `.Icon`   | `string` | icon (based on `.Status`)                      |

[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates
[spotify]: https://www.spotify.com
