website/docs/segments/svn.mdx, before:

---
id: svn
title: Subversion
sidebar_label: Subversion
---

## What

Display subversion information when in a subversion repository. Also works for subfolders. For maximum compatibility,
make sure your `svn` executable is up-to-date (when branch or status information is incorrect for example).

Local changes can also be displayed which uses the following syntax:

- `+` added
- `!` conflicted
- `-` deleted
- `~` modified
- `>` moved

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "svn",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#193549",
  "background": "#ffeb3b",
  "properties": {
    "fetch_status": true
  }
}
```

## Properties

### Fetching information

As doing multiple [subversion][svn] calls can slow down the prompt experience, we do not fetch information by default.
You can set the following properties to `true` to enable fetching additional information (and populate the template).

- fetch_status: `boolean` - fetch the local changes - defaults to `false`

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

``` template
 \ue0a0{{.Branch}} r{{.BaseRev}} {{.Working.String}}
```

:::

### Properties

- `.Working`: `SvnStatus` - changes in the worktree (see below)
- `.Branch`: `string` - current branch (releative URL reported by `svn info`)
- `.BaseRev`: `int` - the currently checked out revision number

### SvnStatus

- `.Modified`: `int` - number of modified files
- `.Deleted`: `int` - number of deleted files
- `.Added`: `int` - number of added files
- `.Moved`: `int` - number of changed moved files
- `.Conflicted`: `int` - number of changed tracked files with conflicts
- `.Changed`: `boolean` - if the status contains changes or not
- `.HasConflicts`: `boolean` - if the status contains conflicts or not
- `.String`: `string` - a string representation of the changes above

[svn]: https://subversion.apache.org
[templates]: /docs/config-templates
[hyperlinks]: /docs/config-templates#helper-functions

Commit message:

feat(wsl): allow using native executable on shared drive
relates to #2097

website/docs/segments/svn.mdx, after:

---
id: svn
title: Subversion
sidebar_label: Subversion
---

## What

Display subversion information when in a subversion repository. Also works for subfolders. For maximum compatibility,
make sure your `svn` executable is up-to-date (when branch or status information is incorrect for example).

Local changes can also be displayed which uses the following syntax:

- `+` added
- `!` conflicted
- `-` deleted
- `~` modified
- `>` moved

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
  "type": "svn",
  "style": "powerline",
  "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
  "foreground": "#193549",
  "background": "#ffeb3b",
  "properties": {
    "fetch_status": true
  }
}
```

## Properties

### Fetching information

As doing multiple [subversion][svn] calls can slow down the prompt experience, we do not fetch information by default.
You can set the following properties to `true` to enable fetching additional information (and populate the template).

- fetch_status: `boolean` - fetch the local changes - defaults to `false`
- native_fallback: `boolean` - when set to `true` and `svn.exe` is not available when inside a WSL2 shared Windows drive, we will fallback to the native svn
executable to fetch data. Not all information can be displayed in this case. Defaults to `false`.

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

``` template
 \ue0a0{{.Branch}} r{{.BaseRev}} {{.Working.String}}
```

:::

### Properties

- `.Working`: `SvnStatus` - changes in the worktree (see below)
- `.Branch`: `string` - current branch (releative URL reported by `svn info`)
- `.BaseRev`: `int` - the currently checked out revision number

### SvnStatus

- `.Modified`: `int` - number of modified files
- `.Deleted`: `int` - number of deleted files
- `.Added`: `int` - number of added files
- `.Moved`: `int` - number of changed moved files
- `.Conflicted`: `int` - number of changed tracked files with conflicts
- `.Changed`: `boolean` - if the status contains changes or not
- `.HasConflicts`: `boolean` - if the status contains conflicts or not
- `.String`: `string` - a string representation of the changes above

[svn]: https://subversion.apache.org
[templates]: /docs/config-templates
[hyperlinks]: /docs/config-templates#helper-functions
