website/docs/segments/wakatime.mdx, before:

---
id: wakatime
title: Wakatime
sidebar_label: Wakatime
---

## What

Shows the tracked time on [wakatime][wt] of the current day

:::caution

You **must** request an API key at the [wakatime][wt] website.
The free tier for is sufficient. You'll find the API key in your profile settings page.

:::

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
    "type": "wakatime",
    "style": "powerline",
    "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
    "foreground": "#ffffff",
    "background": "#007acc",
    "properties": {
        "url": "https://wakatime.com/api/v1/users/current/summaries?start=today&end=today&api_key=API_KEY",
        "cache_timeout": 10,
        "http_timeout": 500
    }
},
```

## Properties

| Name  | Type     | Description                                                                                         |
| ----- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `url` | `string` | Your Wakatime [summaries][wk-summaries] URL, including the API key. Example above. You'll know this |

works if you can curl it yourself and a result. - defaults to `` |`http_timeout`|`int`|The default timeout for http request is 20ms. If no segment is shown, try increasing this timeout.| |`cache_timeout`|`int`|The default timeout for request caching is 10m. A value of 0 disables the cache.|

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

```template
{{ secondsRound .CummulativeTotal.Seconds }}
```

:::

### Properties

| Name                | Type       | Description                              |
| ------------------- | ---------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `.CummulativeTotal` | `wtTotals` | object holding total tracked time values |

### wtTotals Properties

| Name       | Type      | Description                                                     |
| ---------- | --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `.Seconds` | `float64` | a number reprecenting the total tracked time in seconds         |
| `.Text`    | `string`  | a string with human readable tracked time (eg: "2 hrs 30 mins") |

[wt]: https://wakatime.com
[wk-summaries]: https://wakatime.com/developers#summaries
[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates

Commit message:

docs(wakatime): fix table and add subsection for API key

website/docs/segments/wakatime.mdx, after:

---
id: wakatime
title: Wakatime
sidebar_label: Wakatime
---

## What

Shows the tracked time on [wakatime][wt] of the current day

:::caution

You **must** request an API key at the [wakatime][wt] website.
The free tier for is sufficient. You'll find the API key in your profile settings page.

:::

## Sample Configuration

```json
{
    "type": "wakatime",
    "style": "powerline",
    "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
    "foreground": "#ffffff",
    "background": "#007acc",
    "properties": {
        "url": "https://wakatime.com/api/v1/users/current/summaries?start=today&end=today&api_key=API_KEY",
        "cache_timeout": 10,
        "http_timeout": 500
    }
},
```

## Properties

| Name            | Type      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| --------------- | --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `url`           | `string`  | The Wakatime [summaries][wk-summaries] URL, including the API key. Example above. Defaults to ``.                                                                                                                 |
| `http_timeout`  | `int`     | The time (_in milliseconds_, `ms`) it takes to consider an http request as **timed-out**. Defaults to `20`. If no segment is shown, try increasing this timeout.                                                  |
| `cache_timeout` | `int`     | The time (_in minutes_, `m`) it takes to invalidate/renew the Wakatime segment output. Defaults to `10`. Setting this to `0` disables the cache and requests to the API everytime the user presses the Enter key. |

### Dynamic API Key

If you don't want to include the API key into your configuration, the following modification can be done.

```json
"properties": {
  // highlight-next-line
  "url": "https://wakatime.com/api/v1/users/current/summaries?start=today&end=today&api_key={{ .Env.WAKATIME_API_KEY }}",
  "cache_timeout": 10,
  "http_timeout": 500
}
```

:::note 

`WAKATIME_API_KEY` is an example, **any name is possible and acceptable** as long as the environment variable exists and contains the API key value.

Please refer to the [Environment Variable][templates-environment-variables] page for more information.

:::

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

```template
{{ secondsRound .CummulativeTotal.Seconds }}
```

:::

### Properties

| Name                | Type       | Description                              |
| ------------------- | ---------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `.CummulativeTotal` | `wtTotals` | object holding total tracked time values |

### wtTotals Properties

| Name       | Type      | Description                                                     |
| ---------- | --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `.Seconds` | `float64` | a number reprecenting the total tracked time in seconds         |
| `.Text`    | `string`  | a string with human readable tracked time (eg: "2 hrs 30 mins") |

[wt]: https://wakatime.com
[wk-summaries]: https://wakatime.com/developers#summaries
[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates
[templates-environment-variables]: /docs/configuration/templates#environment-variables
