website/docs/segments/winreg.mdx, before:

---
id: winreg
title: Windows Registry Key Query
sidebar_label: Windows Registry Key Query
---

## What

Display the content of the requested Windows registry key.

Supported registry key types:

- String
- DWORD (displayed in upper-case 0x hex)
- QWORD (displayed in upper-case 0x hex)

## Sample Configuration

```json
  {
    "type": "winreg",
    "style": "powerline",
    "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
    "foreground": "#ffffff",
    "background": "#444444",
    "template":" \uE62A {{ .Value }}",
    "properties": {
      "path": "HKLM\\software\\microsoft\\windows nt\\currentversion\\buildlab",
      "fallback":"unknown"
    }
  },
```

## Properties

- path: `string` - registry path to the desired key using backslashes and with a valid root HKEY name.
  Ending path with \ will get the (Default) key from that path.
- fallback: `string` - the value to fall back to if no entry is found

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

``` template
{{ .Value }}
```

:::

### Properties

- .Value: `string` - The result of your query, or fallback if not found.

[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates

Commit message:

feat(winreg): additional value support

website/docs/segments/winreg.mdx, after:

---
id: winreg
title: Windows Registry Key Query
sidebar_label: Windows Registry Key Query
---

## What

Display the content of the requested Windows registry key.

Supported registry key types:

- `SZ` (displayed as string value)
- `EXPAND_SZ` (displayed as string value)
- `BINARY` (displayed as string value)
- `DWORD` (displayed in upper-case 0x hex)
- `QWORD` (displayed in upper-case 0x hex)

## Sample Configuration

```json
  {
    "type": "winreg",
    "style": "powerline",
    "powerline_symbol": "\uE0B0",
    "foreground": "#ffffff",
    "background": "#444444",
    "template":" \uE62A {{ .Value }}",
    "properties": {
      "path": "HKLM\\software\\microsoft\\windows nt\\currentversion\\buildlab",
      "fallback":"unknown"
    }
  },
```

## Properties

- path: `string` - registry path to the desired key using backslashes and with a valid root HKEY name.
  Ending path with \ will get the (Default) key from that path.
- fallback: `string` - the value to fall back to if no entry is found

## Template ([info][templates])

:::note default template

``` template
{{ .Value }}
```

:::

### Properties

- .Value: `string` - The result of your query, or fallback if not found.

[templates]: /docs/configuration/templates
