website/docs/installation/fonts.mdx, before:

---
id: fonts
title: Fonts
sidebar_label: 🔤 Fonts
---

### Nerd Fonts

Oh My Posh was designed to use [Nerd Fonts][nerdfonts]. Nerd Fonts are popular fonts that are patched to include icons.
We recommend [Meslo LGM NF][meslo], but any Nerd Font should be compatible with the standard [themes][themes].

To see the icons displayed in Oh My Posh, **install** a [Nerd Font][nerdfonts], and **configure** your terminal to use it.

#### Installation

Oh My Posh has a CLI to help you select and install a [Nerd Font][nerdfonts] (beta):

:::caution Windows
This command needs to be executed as admin. The fonts are installed system wide.
:::

```bash
oh-my-posh font install
```

#### Windows Terminal

Once you have installed a Nerd Font, you will need to configure the Windows Terminal to use it. This can be easily done
by modifying the Windows Terminal settings (default shortcut: `CTRL + SHIFT + ,`). In your `settings.json` file, add the
`font.face` attribute under the `defaults` attribute in `profiles`:

```json
{
    "profiles":
    {
        "defaults":
        {
            "font":
            {
                "face": "MesloLGM NF"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Other Fonts

If you are not interested in using a Nerd Font, you will want to use a theme which doesn't include any Nerd Font icons.
The `minimal` themes do not make use of Nerd Font icons.

[Creating your own theme][configuration] is always an option too 😊

[nerdfonts]: https://www.nerdfonts.com/
[meslo]: https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts/releases/download/v2.1.0/Meslo.zip
[themes]: https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/tree/main/themes
[font-thread]: https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/issues/145#issuecomment-730162622
[configuration]: /docs/configuration/overview

Commit message:

docs: instructions on using NF in VS Code terminal (#3359)

website/docs/installation/fonts.mdx, after:

---
id: fonts
title: Fonts
sidebar_label: 🔤 Fonts
---

### Nerd Fonts

Oh My Posh was designed to use [Nerd Fonts][nerdfonts]. Nerd Fonts are popular fonts that are patched to include icons.
We recommend [Meslo LGM NF][meslo], but any Nerd Font should be compatible with the standard [themes][themes].

To see the icons displayed in Oh My Posh, **install** a [Nerd Font][nerdfonts], and **configure** your terminal to use it.

#### Installation

Oh My Posh has a CLI to help you select and install a [Nerd Font][nerdfonts] (beta):

:::caution Windows
This command needs to be executed as admin. The fonts are installed system wide.
:::

```bash
oh-my-posh font install
```

#### Windows Terminal

Once you have installed a Nerd Font, you will need to configure the Windows Terminal to use it. This can be easily done
by modifying the Windows Terminal settings (default shortcut: `CTRL + SHIFT + ,`). In your `settings.json` file, add the
`font.face` attribute under the `defaults` attribute in `profiles`:

```json
{
    "profiles":
    {
        "defaults":
        {
            "font":
            {
                "face": "MesloLGM NF"
            }
        }
    }
}
```


#### VS Code

When using Visual Studio Code, you will need to configure the integrated Terminal to make use of the Nerd Font as well. This can be done by changing the `Integrated: Font Family` value in the Terminal settings (default shortcut: `CTRL + ,` and search for `Integrated: Font Family` or via `Users` -> `Features` -> `Terminal`).

If you are using the JSON based settings, you will need to update the `terminal.integrated.fontFamily` value. Example in case of `MesloLGM NF` Nerd Font:

```json
"terminal.integrated.fontFamily": "MesloLGM NF"
```

### Other Fonts

If you are not interested in using a Nerd Font, you will want to use a theme which doesn't include any Nerd Font icons.
The `minimal` themes do not make use of Nerd Font icons.

[Creating your own theme][configuration] is always an option too 😊

[nerdfonts]: https://www.nerdfonts.com/
[meslo]: https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts/releases/download/v2.1.0/Meslo.zip
[themes]: https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/tree/main/themes
[font-thread]: https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/issues/145#issuecomment-730162622
[configuration]: /docs/configuration/overview
