website/docs/installation/homebrew.mdx, before:

A [Homebrew][brew] formula is available for easy installation. When installing Homebrew for Linux, be sure to follow *[Next steps][nextsteps]* instructions to add Homebrew to your PATH and to your bash shell profile script.

```bash
brew install jandedobbeleer/oh-my-posh/oh-my-posh
```

This installs two things:

- `oh-my-posh` - Executable, added to `$(brew --prefix)/bin`
- `themes` - The latest Oh My Posh [themes][themes]

If you want to use a standard theme, you can find them in `$(brew --prefix oh-my-posh)/themes`, referencing them as such
will always keep them compatible when updating Oh My Posh.

## Update

```bash
brew update && brew upgrade oh-my-posh
```

:::tip
In case you see [strange behaviour][strange] in your shell, reload it after upgrading Oh My Posh.
For example in zsh:

```bash
brew update && brew upgrade && exec zsh
```
:::

[brew]: https://brew.sh
[nextsteps]: https://docs.brew.sh/Homebrew-on-Linux#install
[themes]: https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/themes
[strange]: https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/issues/1287

Commit message:

docs(homebrew): add requirements to installation

website/docs/installation/homebrew.mdx, after:

A [Homebrew][brew] formula is available for easy installation. When installing Homebrew for Linux,
be sure to follow *[Next steps][nextsteps]* instructions to add Homebrew to your PATH and to your
bash shell profile script, and *[Requirements][requirements]* to build Oh My Posh.

```bash
brew install jandedobbeleer/oh-my-posh/oh-my-posh
```

This installs two things:

- `oh-my-posh` - Executable, added to `$(brew --prefix)/bin`
- `themes` - The latest Oh My Posh [themes][themes]

If you want to use a standard theme, you can find them in `$(brew --prefix oh-my-posh)/themes`, referencing them as such
will always keep them compatible when updating Oh My Posh.

## Update

```bash
brew update && brew upgrade oh-my-posh
```

:::tip
In case you see [strange behaviour][strange] in your shell, reload it after upgrading Oh My Posh.
For example in zsh:

```bash
brew update && brew upgrade && exec zsh
```
:::

[brew]: https://brew.sh
[requirements]: https://docs.brew.sh/Homebrew-on-Linux#requirements
[nextsteps]: https://docs.brew.sh/Homebrew-on-Linux#install
[themes]: https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/themes
[strange]: https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/issues/1287
