website/docs/installation/linux.mdx, before:

---
id: linux
title: Linux
sidebar_label: 🐧 Linux
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import InstallHomebrew from "./homebrew.mdx";
import Next from "./next.mdx";

## Set up your terminal

Oh My Posh uses ANSI color codes under the hood, these should work in every terminal,
but you may have to set the environment variable `$TERM` to `xterm-256color` for it to work.

:::info
To display all icons, we recommend the use of a [Nerd Font][fonts].
:::

## Installation

<Tabs
  defaultValue="homebrew"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'homebrew', value: 'homebrew', },
    { label: 'manual', value: 'manual', }
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="homebrew">

<InstallHomebrew />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="manual">

Oh My Posh can also be installed manually by downloading the release.
Depending on your distro, this may or may not work (please refer to the homebrew installation
in case it doesn't work).

**Download Oh My Posh**

```bash
sudo wget https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/releases/latest/download/posh-linux-amd64 -O /usr/local/bin/oh-my-posh
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/oh-my-posh
```

**Download the [themes][themes]**

```bash
mkdir ~/.poshthemes
wget https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/releases/latest/download/themes.zip -O ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip
unzip ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip -d ~/.poshthemes
chmod u+rw ~/.poshthemes/*.omp.*
rm ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Next />

[fonts]: /docs/installation/fonts
[scoop]: https://scoop.sh/
[wt]: https://github.com/microsoft/terminal
[iterm2]: https://www.iterm2.com/
[powershell]: https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/oh-my-posh
[configuration]: /docs/configuration/overview
[themes]: /docs/themes

Commit message:

docs(linux): add architecture context
resolves #3195

website/docs/installation/linux.mdx, after:

---
id: linux
title: Linux
sidebar_label: 🐧 Linux
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import InstallHomebrew from "./homebrew.mdx";
import Next from "./next.mdx";

## Set up your terminal

Oh My Posh uses ANSI color codes under the hood, these should work in every terminal,
but you may have to set the environment variable `$TERM` to `xterm-256color` for it to work.

:::info
To display all icons, we recommend the use of a [Nerd Font][fonts].
:::

## Installation

<Tabs
  defaultValue="homebrew"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'homebrew', value: 'homebrew', },
    { label: 'manual', value: 'manual', }
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="homebrew">

<InstallHomebrew />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="manual">

Oh My Posh can also be installed manually by downloading the release.
Depending on your distro, this may or may not work (please refer to the homebrew installation
in case it doesn't work).

**Download Oh My Posh**

:::caution
The below commands assume the processor architecture is `amd64` while we have support for `arm` and `arm64` as well.
Make sure you validate your architecture and adjust `posh-linux-<ARCH>` accordingly. If you don't know your
processor architecture, you can display it using `uname -m`.
:::

```bash
sudo wget https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/releases/latest/download/posh-linux-amd64 -O /usr/local/bin/oh-my-posh
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/oh-my-posh
```

**Download the [themes][themes]**

```bash
mkdir ~/.poshthemes
wget https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/releases/latest/download/themes.zip -O ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip
unzip ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip -d ~/.poshthemes
chmod u+rw ~/.poshthemes/*.omp.*
rm ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Next />

[fonts]: /docs/installation/fonts
[scoop]: https://scoop.sh/
[wt]: https://github.com/microsoft/terminal
[iterm2]: https://www.iterm2.com/
[powershell]: https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/oh-my-posh
[configuration]: /docs/configuration/overview
[themes]: /docs/themes
