website/docs/installation/prompt.mdx, before:

---
id: prompt
title: Change your prompt
sidebar_label: ✨ Prompt
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

:::tip
If you have no idea which shell you're currently using, Oh My Posh has a utility switch that can tell that to you.
:::

```bash
oh-my-posh get shell
```

<Tabs
  defaultValue="powershell"
  groupId="shell"
  values={[
    { label: 'powershell', value: 'powershell', },
    { label: 'cmd', value: 'cmd', },
    { label: 'zsh', value: 'zsh', },
    { label: 'bash', value: 'bash', },
    { label: 'fish', value: 'fish', },
    { label: 'nu', value: 'nu', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="powershell">

Edit your PowerShell profile script, you can find its location under the `$PROFILE` variable in your preferred PowerShell version. For example, using notepad:

```powershell
notepad $PROFILE
```

Then add the following line.

```powershell
oh-my-posh init pwsh | Invoke-Expression
```

Once added, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

```powershell
. $PROFILE
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cmd">

There's no out-of-the-box support for Windows CMD when it comes to custom prompts.
There is however a way to do it using [Clink][clink], which at the same time supercharges
your cmd experience. Follow the installation instructions and make sure you select autostart.

Integrating Oh My Posh with Clink is easy: create a new file called oh-my-posh.lua in your Clink
scripts directory (run `clink info` inside cmd to find that file's location).

:::warning
Use the full path to the config file, not the relative path.
:::

```lua title="oh-my-posh.lua"
load(io.popen('oh-my-posh init cmd'):read("*a"))()
```

Once added, restart cmd for the changes to take effect.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="zsh">

Add the following to `~/.zshrc`:

```bash
eval "$(oh-my-posh init zsh)"
```

:::tip
As the standard terminal has issues displaying the ANSI characters correctly, you might want to skip loading just for that terminal and instead of the line above, place this in your `~/.zshrc`:

```bash
if [ $TERM_PROGRAM != "Apple_Terminal" ]; then
  eval "$(oh-my-posh init zsh)"
fi
```

Note this will still load Oh My Posh for [iTerm2][iterm2] or any other modern day macOS terminal that supports ANSI characters.
:::

Once added, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

```bash
source ~/.zshrc
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="bash">

Add the following to `~/.bashrc` (could be `~/.profile` or `~/.bash_profile` depending on your environment):

```bash
eval "$(oh-my-posh init bash)"
```

Once added, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

```bash
exec bash
```

Or, when using `~/.profile`.

```bash
. ~/.profile
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fish">

:::caution
It's advised to be on the latest version of fish. Versions below 3.1.2 have issues displaying the prompt.
:::

Initialize Oh My Posh in `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:

```bash
oh-my-posh init fish | source
```

Once added, reload your config for the changes to take effect.

```bash
exec fish
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="nu">

:::warning
Oh My Posh requires Nushell >= 0.60.0
:::

Edit `$nu.configuration/path` and add the following lines at the bottom.

```bash
oh-my-posh init nu
source ~/.oh-my-posh.nu
```

If you want to save the initialization script elsewhere, replace the lines above with these:

```bash
oh-my-posh init nu --print | save /mylocation/myscript.nu
source /mylocation/myscript.nu
```

Restart Nushell for the changes to take effect.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

[clink]: https://chrisant996.github.io/clink/
[iterm2]: https://www.iterm2.com/

Commit message:

docs(pwsh): create profile on error

website/docs/installation/prompt.mdx, after:

---
id: prompt
title: Change your prompt
sidebar_label: ✨ Prompt
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

:::tip
If you have no idea which shell you're currently using, Oh My Posh has a utility switch that can tell that to you.
:::

```bash
oh-my-posh get shell
```

<Tabs
  defaultValue="powershell"
  groupId="shell"
  values={[
    { label: 'powershell', value: 'powershell', },
    { label: 'cmd', value: 'cmd', },
    { label: 'zsh', value: 'zsh', },
    { label: 'bash', value: 'bash', },
    { label: 'fish', value: 'fish', },
    { label: 'nu', value: 'nu', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="powershell">

Edit your PowerShell profile script, you can find its location under the `$PROFILE` variable in your preferred PowerShell version. For example, using notepad:

```powershell
notepad $PROFILE
```

:::info
When the above command gives an error, make sure to create the profile first.

```powershell
New-Item -Path $PROFILE -Type File -Force
```
:::

Then add the following line.

```powershell
oh-my-posh init pwsh | Invoke-Expression
```

Once added, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

```powershell
. $PROFILE
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cmd">

There's no out-of-the-box support for Windows CMD when it comes to custom prompts.
There is however a way to do it using [Clink][clink], which at the same time supercharges
your cmd experience. Follow the installation instructions and make sure you select autostart.

Integrating Oh My Posh with Clink is easy: create a new file called oh-my-posh.lua in your Clink
scripts directory (run `clink info` inside cmd to find that file's location).

:::warning
Use the full path to the config file, not the relative path.
:::

```lua title="oh-my-posh.lua"
load(io.popen('oh-my-posh init cmd'):read("*a"))()
```

Once added, restart cmd for the changes to take effect.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="zsh">

Add the following to `~/.zshrc`:

```bash
eval "$(oh-my-posh init zsh)"
```

:::tip
As the standard terminal has issues displaying the ANSI characters correctly, you might want to skip loading just for that terminal and instead of the line above, place this in your `~/.zshrc`:

```bash
if [ $TERM_PROGRAM != "Apple_Terminal" ]; then
  eval "$(oh-my-posh init zsh)"
fi
```

Note this will still load Oh My Posh for [iTerm2][iterm2] or any other modern day macOS terminal that supports ANSI characters.
:::

Once added, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

```bash
source ~/.zshrc
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="bash">

Add the following to `~/.bashrc` (could be `~/.profile` or `~/.bash_profile` depending on your environment):

```bash
eval "$(oh-my-posh init bash)"
```

Once added, reload your profile for the changes to take effect.

```bash
exec bash
```

Or, when using `~/.profile`.

```bash
. ~/.profile
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fish">

:::caution
It's advised to be on the latest version of fish. Versions below 3.1.2 have issues displaying the prompt.
:::

Initialize Oh My Posh in `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:

```bash
oh-my-posh init fish | source
```

Once added, reload your config for the changes to take effect.

```bash
exec fish
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="nu">

:::warning
Oh My Posh requires Nushell >= 0.60.0
:::

Edit `$nu.configuration/path` and add the following lines at the bottom.

```bash
oh-my-posh init nu
source ~/.oh-my-posh.nu
```

If you want to save the initialization script elsewhere, replace the lines above with these:

```bash
oh-my-posh init nu --print | save /mylocation/myscript.nu
source /mylocation/myscript.nu
```

Restart Nushell for the changes to take effect.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

[clink]: https://chrisant996.github.io/clink/
[iterm2]: https://www.iterm2.com/
