docs/docs/installation/windows.mdx, before:

---
id: windows
title: Windows
sidebar_label: ⊞ Windows
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

## Set up your terminal

While Oh My Posh works on the standard terminal, we advise using the [Windows Terminal][wt].

:::info
To display all icons, we recommend the use of a [Nerd Font][fonts].
:::

:::caution
When using oh-my-posh inside the WSL, make sure to follow the [linux][linux] installation guide.
:::

## Install

<Tabs
  defaultValue="winget"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'winget', value: 'winget', },
    { label: 'scoop', value: 'scoop', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="winget">

```powershell
winget install JanDeDobbeleer.OhMyPosh
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="scoop">

```powershell
scoop install https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/releases/latest/download/oh-my-posh.json
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This installs a couple of things:

- `oh-my-posh.exe` - Windows executable
- `themes` - The latest Oh My Posh [themes][themes]

For the `$PATH` to reload, a restart of your terminal is advised.

:::warning Windows Defender
To ensure Oh My Posh isn't blocked by Windows Defender, open an elevated PowerShell prompt and run the following command:

```powershell
Add-MpPreference -ExclusionProcess oh-my-posh.exe
```
:::

## Update

<Tabs
  defaultValue="winget"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'winget', value: 'winget', },
    { label: 'scoop', value: 'scoop', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="winget">

```powershell
winget upgrade JanDeDobbeleer.OhMyPosh
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="scoop">

```powershell
scoop update oh-my-posh
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Default themes

<Tabs
  defaultValue="winget"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'winget', value: 'winget', },
    { label: 'scoop', value: 'scoop', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="winget">

You can find the themes winget installs inside the `$env:POSH_THEMES_PATH` folder.
To use `jandedobbeleer.omp.json` for example, you can refer to it using `$env:POSH_THEMES_PATH\jandedobbeleer.omp.json`
when setting the prompt using the `--config` flag.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="scoop">

You can find the themes scoop installs inside the `"$(scoop prefix oh-my-posh)\themes\"` folder.
To use `jandedobbeleer.omp.json` for example, you can refer to it using `"$(scoop prefix oh-my-posh)\themes\jandedobbeleer.omp.json"`
when setting the prompt using the `--config` flag.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

[fonts]: /docs/configuration/fonts
[scoop]: https://scoop.sh/
[wt]: https://github.com/microsoft/terminal
[linux]: /docs/installation/linux
[themes]: /docs/themes

Commit message:

docs: update windows setup instructions antivirus hint
Resolves #2158

docs/docs/installation/windows.mdx, after:

---
id: windows
title: Windows
sidebar_label: ⊞ Windows
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

## Set up your terminal

While Oh My Posh works on the standard terminal, we advise using the [Windows Terminal][wt].

:::info
To display all icons, we recommend the use of a [Nerd Font][fonts].
:::

:::caution
When using oh-my-posh inside the WSL, make sure to follow the [linux][linux] installation guide.
:::

## Install

<Tabs
  defaultValue="winget"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'winget', value: 'winget', },
    { label: 'scoop', value: 'scoop', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="winget">

```powershell
winget install JanDeDobbeleer.OhMyPosh
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="scoop">

```powershell
scoop install https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/releases/latest/download/oh-my-posh.json
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

This installs a couple of things:

- `oh-my-posh.exe` - Windows executable
- `themes` - The latest Oh My Posh [themes][themes]

For the `$PATH` to reload, a restart of your terminal is advised.

:::warning Antivirus software
Due to frequent updates of Oh My Posh, Antivirus software occasionally flags it (false positive).  
To ensure Oh My Posh isn't blocked you can either report it to your favorite Antivirus software as false positive 
(e.g. [Report a false positive/negative to Microsoft for analysis][report-false-positive]) or create an exclusion for it.  
Exclusions should be added with the full path to the executable, you can get it with the following command from a PowerShell prompt:

```powershell
(Get-Command oh-my-posh).Source
```
:::

## Update

<Tabs
  defaultValue="winget"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'winget', value: 'winget', },
    { label: 'scoop', value: 'scoop', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="winget">

```powershell
winget upgrade JanDeDobbeleer.OhMyPosh
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="scoop">

```powershell
scoop update oh-my-posh
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Default themes

<Tabs
  defaultValue="winget"
  groupId="install"
  values={[
    { label: 'winget', value: 'winget', },
    { label: 'scoop', value: 'scoop', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="winget">

You can find the themes winget installs inside the `$env:POSH_THEMES_PATH` folder.
To use `jandedobbeleer.omp.json` for example, you can refer to it using `$env:POSH_THEMES_PATH\jandedobbeleer.omp.json`
when setting the prompt using the `--config` flag.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="scoop">

You can find the themes scoop installs inside the `"$(scoop prefix oh-my-posh)\themes\"` folder.
To use `jandedobbeleer.omp.json` for example, you can refer to it using `"$(scoop prefix oh-my-posh)\themes\jandedobbeleer.omp.json"`
when setting the prompt using the `--config` flag.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

[fonts]: /docs/configuration/fonts
[scoop]: https://scoop.sh/
[wt]: https://github.com/microsoft/terminal
[linux]: /docs/installation/linux
[themes]: /docs/themes
[report-false-positive]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/security/defender/m365d-autoir-report-false-positives-negatives#report-a-false-positivenegative-to-microsoft-for-analysis
