website/docs/configuration/block.mdx, before:

---
id: block
title: Block
sidebar_label: Block
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

Let's take a closer look at what defines a block.

<Tabs
  defaultValue="json"
  groupId="sample"
  values={[
    { label: 'json', value: 'json', },
    { label: 'yaml', value: 'yaml', },
    { label: 'toml', value: 'toml', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="json">

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/main/themes/schema.json",
  ...
  "blocks": [
    {
      "type": "prompt",
      "alignment": "left",
      "segments": [
        ...
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="yaml">

```yaml
# yaml-language-server: $schema=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/main/themes/schema.json
...
blocks:
  - type: prompt
    alignment: left
    segments: [
      ...
    ]
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="toml">

```toml
"$schema" = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/main/themes/schema.json"

[[blocks]]
type = "prompt"
alignment = "left"
segments = [
  ...
]
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

- type: `prompt` | `rprompt`
- newline: `boolean`
- alignment: `left` | `right`
- filler: `string`
- segments: `array` of one or more `segments`

### Type

Tells the engine what to do with the block. There are two options:

- `prompt` renders one or more segments
- `rprompt` renders one or more segments aligned to the right of the cursor. Only one `rprompt` block is permitted.
Supported on zsh, bash, PowerShell, cmd and fish.

### Newline

Start the block on a new line - defaults to `false`.

### Alignment

Tell the engine if the block should be left or right-aligned.

### Filler

When you want to join a right and left aligned block with a repeated set of characters, add the character(s)
to be repeated to this property. Add this property to the _right_ aligned block. This supports the use of
[color overrides][color-overrides].

```json
"alignment": "right",
"filler": "."
```

### Segments

Array of one or more segments.

[color-overrides]: /docs/configuration/colors#color-overrides

Commit message:

feat: hide/break right aligned block on overflow
resolves #2442

website/docs/configuration/block.mdx, after:

---
id: block
title: Block
sidebar_label: Block
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

Let's take a closer look at what defines a block.

<Tabs
  defaultValue="json"
  groupId="sample"
  values={[
    { label: 'json', value: 'json', },
    { label: 'yaml', value: 'yaml', },
    { label: 'toml', value: 'toml', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="json">

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/main/themes/schema.json",
  ...
  "blocks": [
    {
      "type": "prompt",
      "alignment": "left",
      "segments": [
        ...
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="yaml">

```yaml
# yaml-language-server: $schema=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/main/themes/schema.json
...
blocks:
  - type: prompt
    alignment: left
    segments: [
      ...
    ]
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="toml">

```toml
"$schema" = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/main/themes/schema.json"

[[blocks]]
type = "prompt"
alignment = "left"
segments = [
  ...
]
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

- type: `prompt` | `rprompt`
- newline: `boolean`
- alignment: `left` | `right`
- filler: `string`
- overflow: `break` | `hide`
- segments: `array` of one or more `segments`

### Type

Tells the engine what to do with the block. There are two options:

- `prompt` renders one or more segments
- `rprompt` renders one or more segments aligned to the right of the cursor. Only one `rprompt` block is permitted.
Supported on zsh, bash, PowerShell, cmd and fish.

### Newline

Start the block on a new line - defaults to `false`.

### Alignment

Tell the engine if the block should be left or right-aligned.

### Filler

When you want to join a right and left aligned block with a repeated set of characters, add the character(s)
to be repeated to this property. Add this property to the _right_ aligned block. This supports the use of
[color overrides][color-overrides].

```json
"alignment": "right",
"filler": "."
```

### Overflow

When the right aligned block is so long it will overflow the left aligned block, the engine will either
break the block or hide it based on the setting. By default it is printed as is on the same line.

### Segments

Array of one or more segments.

[color-overrides]: /docs/configuration/colors#color-overrides
